{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 venue,title,authors,abstract,year,link,doi,pages,rank,peer_reviewed,area,gpt_confidence,gpt_note,file,original,type,publisher,acronym\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,\'93Reverse Gerrymandering\'94: Manipulation in Multi-Group Decision Making,Omer Lev;Yoad Lewenberg,"District-based manipulation, or gerrymandering, is usually taken to refer to agents who are in fixed location, and an external division is imposed upon them. However, in many real-world setting, there is an external, fixed division \'96 an organizational chart of a company, or markets for a particular product. In these cases, agents may wish to move around( \'93reverse gerrymandering\'94) , as each of them tries to maximize their influence across the company\'92s subunits, or resources are \'93working\'94 to be allocated to areas where they will be most needed. In this paper we explore an iterative dynamic in this setting, finding that allowing this decentralized system results, in some particular cases, in a stable equilibrium, though in general, the setting may end up in a cycle. We further examine how this decentralized process affects the social welfare of the system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4037,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012069,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,3D-STMN: Dependency-Driven Superpoint-Text Matching Network for End-to-End 3D Referring Expression Segmentation,Changli Wu;Yiwei Ma;Qi Chen;Haowei Wang;Gen Luo;Jiayi Ji;Xiaoshuai Sun,"In 3D Referring Expression Segmentation( 3D-RES) , the earlier approach adopts a two-stage paradigm, extracting segmentation proposals and then matching them with referring expressions. However, this conventional paradigm encounters significant challenges, most notably in terms of the generation of lackluster initial proposals and a pronounced deceleration in inference speed. Recognizing these limitations, we introduce an innovative end-to-end Superpoint-Text Matching Network( 3D-STMN) that is enriched by dependency-driven insights. One of the keystones of our model is the Superpoint-Text Matching( STM) mechanism. Unlike traditional methods that navigate through instance proposals, STM directly correlates linguistic indications with their respective superpoints, clusters of semantically related points. This architectural decision empowers our model to efficiently harness cross-modal semantic relationships, primarily leveraging densely annotated superpoint-text pairs, as opposed to the more sparse instance-text pairs. In pursuit of enhancing the role of text in guiding the segmentation process, we further incorporate the Dependency-Driven Interaction( DDI) module to deepen the networks semantic comprehension of referring expressions. Using the dependency trees as a beacon, this module discerns the intricate relationships between primary terms and their associated descriptors in expressions, thereby elevating both the localization and segmentation capacities. Comprehensive experiments on the ScanRefer benchmark reveal that our model not only sets new performance standards, registering an mIoU gain of 11. 7 points but also achieves a staggering enhancement in inference speed, surpassing traditional methods by 95. 7 times. The code and models are available at https://github. com/sosppxo/3D-STMN.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28408,10.1609/aaai.v38i6.28408,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Bayesian Spatial Model to Correct Under-Reporting in Urban Crowdsourcing,Gabriel Agostini;Emma Pierson;Nikhil Garg,"Decision-makers often observe the occurrence of events through a reporting process. City governments, for example, rely on resident reports to find and then resolve urban infrastructural problems such as fallen street trees, flooded basements, or rat infestations. Without additional assumptions, there is no way to distinguish events that occur but are not reported from events that truly did not occur--a fundamental problem in settings with positive-unlabeled data. Because disparities in reporting rates correlate with resident demographics, addressing incidents only on the basis of reports leads to systematic neglect in neighborhoods that are less likely to report events. We show how to overcome this challenge by leveraging the fact that events are spatially correlated. Our framework uses a Bayesian spatial latent variable model to infer event occurrence probabilities and applies it to storm-induced flooding reports in New York City, further pooling results across multiple storms. We show that a model accounting for under-reporting and spatial correlation predicts future reports more accurately than other models, and further induces a more equitable set of inspections: its allocations better reflect the population and provide equitable service to non-white, less traditionally educated, and lower-income residents. This finding reflects heterogeneous reporting behavior learned by the model: reporting rates are higher in Census tracts with higher populations, proportions of white residents, and proportions of owner-occupied households. Our work lays the groundwork for more equitable proactive government services, even with disparate reporting behavior.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30190,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30190,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A BTP-Based Family of Variable Elimination Rules for Binary CSPs,Achref El Mouelhi,"The study of broken-triangles is becoming increasingly ambitious, by both solving constraint satisfaction problems( CSPs) in polynomial time and reducing search space size through value merging or variable elimination. Considerable progress has been made in extending this important concept, such as dual broken-triangle and weakly broken-triangle, in order to maximize the number of captured tractable CSP instances and/or the number of merged values. Specifically, m-wBTP allows to merge more values than BTP. k-BTP, WBTP and m-BTP permit to capture more tractable instances than BTP. Here, we introduce a new weaker form of BTP, which will be called m-fBTP for flexible broken-triangle property. m-fBTP allows on the one hand to eliminate more variables than BTP while preserving satisfiability and on the other to define new bigger tractable class for which arc consistency is a decision procedure. Likewise, m-fBTP permits to merge more values than BTP but less than m-wBTP.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11126,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11126,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Search and Constraint Satisfaction,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Case Study of the Shortcut Effects in Visual Commonsense Reasoning,Keren Ye;Adriana Kovashka,"Visual reasoning and question-answering have gathered attention in recent years. Many datasets and evaluation protocols have been proposed; some have been shown to contain bias that allows models to ``cheat without performing true, generalizable reasoning. A well-known bias is dependence on language priors( frequency of answers) resulting in the model not looking at the image. We discover a new type of bias in the Visual Commonsense Reasoning( VCR) dataset. In particular we show that most state-of-the-art models exploit co-occurring text between input( question) and output( answer options) , and rely on only a few pieces of information in the candidate options, to make a decision. Unfortunately, relying on such superficial evidence causes models to be very fragile. To measure fragility, we propose two ways to modify the validation data, in which a few words in the answer choices are modified without significant changes in meaning. We find such insignificant changes cause models performance to degrade significantly. To resolve the issue, we propose a curriculum-based masking approach, as a mechanism to perform more robust training. Our method improves the baseline by requiring it to pay attention to the answers as a whole, and is more effective than prior masking strategies.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16428,10.1609/aaai.v35i4.16428,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Complete Criterion for Value of Information in Soluble Influence Diagrams,Chris van Merwijk;Ryan Carey;Tom Everitt,"Influence diagrams have recently been used to analyse the safety and fairness properties of AI systems. A key building block for this analysis is a graphical criterion for value of information( VoI). This paper establishes the first complete graphical criterion for VoI in influence diagrams with multiple decisions. Along the way, we establish two techniques for proving properties of multi-decision influence diagrams: ID homomorphisms are structure-preserving transformations of influence diagrams, while a Tree of Systems is a collection of paths that captures how information and control can flow in an influence diagram.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21242,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21242,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Data-Driven Approach for Gin Rummy Hand Evaluation,Sang T. Truong;Todd W. Neller,"We develop a data-driven approach for hand strength evaluation in the game of Gin Rummy. Employing Convolutional Neural Networks, Monte Carlo simulation, and Bayesian reasoning, we compute both offensive and defensive scores of a game state. After only one training cycle, the model was able to make sophisticated and human-like decisions with a 55. 4% +/- 0. 8% win rate( 90% confidence level) against a Simple player.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17843,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17843,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Deep Model With Local Surrogate Loss for General Cost-Sensitive Multi-Label Learning,Cheng-Yu Hsieh;Yi-An Lin;Hsuan-Tien Lin,"Multi-label learning is an important machine learning problem with a wide range of applications. The variety of criteria for satisfying different application needs calls for cost-sensitive algorithms, which can adapt to different criteria easily. Nevertheless, because of the sophisticated nature of the criteria for multi-label learning, cost-sensitive algorithms for general criteria are hard to design, and current cost-sensitive algorithms can at most deal with some special types of criteria. In this work, we propose a novel cost-sensitive multi-label learning model for any general criteria. Our key idea within the model is to iteratively estimate a surrogate loss that approximates the sophisticated criterion of interest near some local neighborhood, and use the estimate to decide a descent direction for optimization. The key idea is then coupled with deep learning to form our proposed model. Experimental results validate that our proposed model is superior to existing cost-sensitive algorithms and existing deep learning models across different criteria.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11816,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11816,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Deep Reinforcement Learning Framework for Rebalancing Dockless Bike Sharing Systems,Ling Pan;Qingpeng Cai;Zhixuan Fang;Pingzhong Tang;Longbo Huang,"Bike sharing provides an environment-friendly way for traveling and is booming all over the world. Yet, due to the high similarity of user travel patterns, the bike imbalance problem constantly occurs, especially for dockless bike sharing systems, causing significant impact on service quality and company revenue. Thus, it has become a critical task for bike sharing operators to resolve such imbalance efficiently. In this paper, we propose a novel deep reinforcement learning framework for incentivizing users to rebalance such systems. We model the problem as a Markov decision process and take both spatial and temporal features into consideration. We develop a novel deep reinforcement learning algorithm called Hierarchical Reinforcement Pricing( HRP) , which builds upon the Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient algorithm. Different from existing methods that often ignore spatial information and rely heavily on accurate prediction, HRP captures both spatial and temporal dependencies using a divide-and-conquer structure with an embedded localized module. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate HRP, based on a dataset from Mobike, a major Chinese dockless bike sharing company. Results show that HRP performs close to the 24-timeslot look-ahead optimization, and outperforms state-of-the-art methods in both service level and bike distribution. It also transfers well when applied to unseen areas.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3940,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011393,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Deep Sequential Model for Discourse Parsing on Multi-Party Dialogues,Zhouxing Shi;Minlie Huang,"Discourse structures are beneficial for various NLP tasks such as dialogue understanding, question answering, sentiment analysis, and so on. This paper presents a deep sequential model for parsing discourse dependency structures of multi-party dialogues. The proposed model aims to construct a discourse dependency tree by predicting dependency relations and constructing the discourse structure jointly and alternately. It makes a sequential scan of the Elementary DiscourseUnits( EDUs) 1 in a dialogue. For each EDU, the model decides to which previous EDU the current one should link and what the corresponding relation type is. The predicted link and relation type are then used to build the discourse structure incrementally with a structured encoder. During link prediction and relation classification, the model utilizes not only local information that represents the concerned EDUs, but also global information that encodes the EDU sequence and the discourse structure that is already built at the current step. Experiments show that the proposed model outperforms all the state-of-the-art baselines.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4680,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017007,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Deterministic Neural Network Approach to Playing Gin Rummy,Viet Dung Nguyen;Dung Doan;Todd W. Neller,"This paper describes a deterministic approach to building a fixed-strategy gin rummy player. In the paper, we develop and evaluate both heuristic and neural network models for informing draw, discard, and knock decisions in the game. In this empirical study, we test performance of the models through competitive game play, show which best inform strategy, and demonstrate statistical significance of the improvement over a simple strategy. Through this empirical study, we indicate features that we expect to be helpful in future improvements to Gin Rummy play.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17840,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17840,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Distillation Approach to Data Efficient Individual Treatment Effect Estimation,Maggie Makar;Adith Swaminathan;Emre K\uc0\u305 c\u305 man,"The potential for using machine learning algorithms as a tool for suggesting optimal interventions has fueled significant interest in developing methods for estimating heterogeneous or individual treatment effects( ITEs) from observational data. While several methods for estimating ITEs have been recently suggested, these methods assume no constraints on the availability of data at the time of deployment or test time. This assumption is unrealistic in settings where data acquisition is a significant part of the analysis pipeline, meaning data about a test case has to be collected in order to predict the ITE. In this work, we present Data Efficient Individual Treatment Effect Estimation( DEITEE) , a method which exploits the idea that adjusting for confounding, and hence collecting information about confounders, is not necessary at test time. DEITEE allows the development of rich models that exploit all variables at train time but identifies a minimal set of variables required to estimate the ITE at test time. Using 77 semi-synthetic datasets with varying data generating processes, we show that DEITEE achieves significant reductions in the number of variables required at test time with little to no loss in accuracy. Using real data, we demonstrate the utility of our approach in helping soon-to-be mothers make planning and lifestyle decisions that will impact newborn health.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4375,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014544,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Dynamic Rationalization of Distance Rationalizability,Craig Boutilier;Ariel Procaccia,"Distance rationalizability is an intuitive paradigm for developing and studying voting rules: given a notion of consensus and a distance function on preference profiles, a rationalizable voting rule selects an alternative that is closest to being a consensus winner. Despite its appeal, distance rationalizability faces the challenge of connecting the chosen distance measure and consensus notion to an operational measure of social desirability. We tackle this issue via the decision-theoretic framework of dynamic social choice, in which a social choice Markov decision process( MDP) models the dynamics of voter preferences in response to winner selection. We show that, for a prominent class of distance functions, one can construct a social choice MDP, with natural preference dynamics and rewards, such that a voting rule is( votewise) rationalizable with respect to the unanimity consensus for a given distance function iff it is a( deterministic) optimal policy in the MDP. This provides an alternative rationale for distance rationalizability, demonstrating the equivalence of rationalizable voting rules in a static sense and winner selection to maximize societal utility in a dynamic process.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8240,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8240,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Fair Incentive Scheme for Community Health Workers,Avinandan Bose;Tracey Li;Arunesh Sinha;Tien Mai,"Community health workers( CHWs) play a crucial role in the last mile delivery of essential health services to underserved populations in low-income countries. Many nongovernmental organizations( NGOs) provide training and support to enable CHWs to deliver health services to their communities, with no charge to the recipients of the services. This includes monetary compensation for the work that CHWs perform, which is broken down into a series of well defined tasks. In this work, we partner with a NGO D-Tree International to design a fair monetary compensation scheme for tasks performed by CHWs in the semi-autonomous region of Zanzibar in Tanzania, Africa. In consultation with stakeholders, we interpret fairness as the equal opportunity to earn, which means that each CHW has the opportunity to earn roughly the same total payment over a given T month period, if the CHW reacts to the incentive scheme almost rationally. We model this problem as a reward design problem for a Markov Decision Process( MDP) formulation for the CHWs\'92 earning. There is a need for the mechanism to be simple so that it is understood by the CHWs, thus, we explore linear and piecewise linear rewards in the CHWs\'92 measured units of work. We solve this design problem via a novel policy-reward gradient result. Our experiments using two real world parameters from the ground provide evidence of reasonable incentive output by our scheme.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26653,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26653,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A General Search-Based Framework for Generating Textual Counterfactual Explanations,Daniel Gilo;Shaul Markovitch,"One of the prominent methods for explaining the decision of a machine-learning classifier is by a counterfactual example. Most current algorithms for generating such examples in the textual domain are based on generative language models. Generative models, however, are trained to minimize a specific loss function in order to fulfill certain requirements for the generated texts. Any change in the requirements may necessitate costly retraining, thus potentially limiting their applicability. In this paper, we present a general search-based framework for generating counterfactual explanations in the textual domain. Our framework is model-agnostic, domain-agnostic, anytime, and does not require retraining in order to adapt to changes in the user requirements. We model the task as a search problem in a space where the initial state is the classified text, and the goal state is a text in a given target class. Our framework includes domain-independent modification operators, but can also exploit domain-specific knowledge through specialized operators. The search algorithm attempts to find a text from the target class with minimal user-specified distance from the original classified object.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29764,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29764,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Natural Language Processing I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A General Theoretical Framework for Learning Smallest Interpretable Models,Sebastian Ordyniak;Giacomo Paesani;Mateusz Rychlicki;Stefan Szeider,"We develop a general algorithmic framework that allows us to obtain fixed-parameter tractability for computing smallest symbolic models that represent given data. Our framework applies to all ML model types that admit a certain extension property. By showing this extension property for decision trees, decision sets, decision lists, and binary decision diagrams, we obtain that minimizing these fundamental model types is fixed-parameter tractable. Our framework even applies to ensembles, which combine individual models by majority decision.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28937,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28937,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Highly-Parameterized Ensemble to Play Gin Rummy,Masayuki Nagai;Kavya Shrivastava;Kien Ta;Steven Bogaerts;Chad Byers,"This paper describes the design and training of a computer Gin Rummy player. The system includes three main components to make decisions about drawing cards, discarding, and ending the game, with numerous parameters controlling behavior. In particular, an ensemble approach is explored in the discard decision. Finally, three sets of parameter tuning and performance experiments are analyzed.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17839,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17839,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Lyapunov-Based Methodology for Constrained Optimization with Bandit Feedback,Semih Cayci;Yilin Zheng;Atilla Eryilmaz,"In a wide variety of applications including online advertising, contractual hiring, and wireless scheduling, the controller is constrained by a stringent budget constraint on the available resources, which are consumed in a random amount by each action, and a stochastic feasibility constraint that may impose important operational limitations on decision-making. In this work, we consider a general model to address such problems, where each action returns a random reward, cost, and penalty from an unknown joint distribution, and the decision-maker aims to maximize the total reward under a budget constraint B on the total cost and a stochastic constraint on the time-average penalty. We propose a novel low-complexity algorithm based on Lyapunov optimization methodology, named LyOn, and prove that for K arms it achieves square root of KBlog( B) regret and zero constraint-violation when B is sufficiently large. The low computational cost and sharp performance bounds of LyOn suggest that Lyapunov-based algorithm design methodology can be effective in solving constrained bandit optimization problems.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20285,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20285,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Machine Learning Approach to Identify Houses with High Lead Tap Water Concentrations,Seyedsaeed Hajiseyedjavadi;Michael Blackhurst;Hassan A Karimi,"Over a century separates initial lead service lateral installations from the federal regulation of lead in drinking water. As such, municipalities often do not have adequate information describing installations of lead plumbing. Municipalities thus face challenges such as reducing exposure to lead in drinking water, spreading scarce resources for gathering information, adopting short-term protection measures( e. g. , providing filters) , and developing longer-term prevention strategies( e. g. , replacing lead laterals). Given the spatial and temporal patterns to properties, machine learning is seen as a useful tool to reduce uncertainty in decision making by authorities when addressing lead in water. The Pittsburgh Water and Sewer Authority( PWSA) is currently addressing these challenges in Pittsburgh and this paper describes the development and application of a model predicting high tap water concentrations( > 15 ppb) for PWSA customers. The model was developed using spatial cross validation to support PWSA\'92s interest in applying predictions in areas without training data. The model\'92s AUROC is 71. 6% and primarily relies on publicly available property tax assessment data and indicators of lateral material collected by PWSA as they meet regulatory requirements.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/7040,10.1609/aaai.v34i08.7040,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Machine Learning Method for EV Range Prediction with Updates on Route Information and Traffic Conditions,Dohee Kim;Hong Gi Shim;Jeong Soo Eo,"Drivers anxiety about the remaining driving range of electric vehicles( EVs) has been quite improved by mounting a high-capacity battery pack. However, when EVs need to be charged, the drivers still feel uncomfortable if inaccurate range prediction is provided because the inaccuracy makes it difficult to decide when and where to charge EV. In this paper, to mitigate the EV range anxiety, a new machine learning( ML) method to enhance range prediction accuracy is proposed in a practical way. For continuously obtaining the recent traffic conditions ahead, input features indicating the near-future vehicle dynamics are connected to a long short-term memory( LSTM) network, which can consecutively utilize a relation of neighboring data, and then the output features of the LSTM network with another input features consisting of energy-related vehicle system states become another input layer for deep learning network( DNN). The proposed LSTM-DNN mixture model is trained by exploiting the driving data of about 160, 000 km and the following test performance shows that the model retains the range prediction accuracy of 2 ~ 3 km in a time window of 40 min. The test results indicate that the LSTM-DNN range prediction model is able to make a far-sighted range prediction while considering varying map and traffic information to a destination.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21525,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21525,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Model for Estimating the Economic Costs of Computer Vision Systems That Use Deep Learning,Neil Thompson;Martin Fleming;Benny J. Tang;Anna M. Pastwa;Nicholas Borge;Brian C. Goehring;Subhro Das,"Deep learning, the most important subfield of machine learning and artificial intelligence( AI) over the last decade, is considered one of the fundamental technologies underpinning the Fourth Industrial Revolution. But despite its record-breaking history, deep learning\'92s enormous appetite for compute and data means that sometimes it can be too costly to practically use. In this paper, we connect technical insights from deep learning scaling laws and transfer learning with the economics of IT to propose a framework for estimating the cost of deep learning computer vision systems to achieve a desired level of accuracy. Our tool can be of practical use to AI practitioners in industry or academia to guide investment decisions.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30343,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30343,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Deployed Innovative Tools for Enabling AI Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A New Bounding Scheme for Influence Diagrams,Radu Marinescu;Junkyu Lee;Rina Dechter,"Influence diagrams provide a modeling and inference framework for sequential decision problems, representing the probabilistic knowledge by a Bayesian network and the preferences of an agent by utility functions over the random variables and decision variables. Computing the maximum expected utility( MEU) and the optimizing policy is exponential in the constrained induced width and therefore is notoriously difficult for larger models. In this paper, we develop a new bounding scheme for MEU that applies partitioning based approximations on top of the decomposition scheme called a multi-operator cluster DAG for influence diagrams that is more sensitive to the underlying structure of the model than the classical join-tree decomposition of influence diagrams. Our bounding scheme utilizes a cost-shifting mechanism to tighten the bound further. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme on various hard benchmarks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17443,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17443,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A New Ensemble Adversarial Attack Powered by Long-Term Gradient Memories,Zhaohui Che;Ali Borji;Guangtao Zhai;Suiyi Ling;Jing Li;Patrick Le Callet,"Deep neural networks are vulnerable to adversarial attacks. More importantly, some adversarial examples crafted against an ensemble of pre-trained source models can transfer to other new target models, thus pose a security threat to black-box applications( when the attackers have no access to the target models). Despite adopting diverse architectures and parameters, source and target models often share similar decision boundaries. Therefore, if an adversary is capable of fooling several source models concurrently, it can potentially capture intrinsic transferable adversarial information that may allow it to fool a broad class of other black-box target models. Current ensemble attacks, however, only consider a limited number of source models to craft an adversary, and obtain poor transferability. In this paper, we propose a novel black-box attack, dubbed Serial-Mini-Batch-Ensemble-Attack( SMBEA). SMBEA divides a large number of pre-trained source models into several mini-batches. For each single batch, we design 3 new ensemble strategies to improve the intra-batch transferability. Besides, we propose a new algorithm that recursively accumulates the \'93long-term\'94 gradient memories of the previous batch to the following batch. This way, the learned adversarial information can be preserved and the inter-batch transferability can be improved. Experiments indicate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art ensemble attacks over multiple pixel-to-pixel vision tasks including image translation and salient region prediction. Our method successfully fools two online black-box saliency prediction systems including DeepGaze-II( Kummerer 2017) and SALICON( Huang et al. 2017). Finally, we also contribute a new repository to promote the research on adversarial attack and defense over pixel-to-pixel tasks: https://github. com/CZHQuality/AAA-Pix2pix.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5743,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5743,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Novel Visual Interpretability for Deep Neural Networks by Optimizing Activation Maps with Perturbation,Qinglong Zhang;Lu Rao;Yubin Yang,"Interpretability has been regarded as an essential component for deploying deep neural networks, in which the saliency-based method is one of the most prevailing interpretable approaches since it can generate individually intuitive heatmaps that highlight parts of the input image that are most important to the decision of the deep networks on a particular classification target. However, heatmaps generated by existing methods either contain little information to represent objects( perturbation-based methods) or cannot effectively locate multi-class objects( activation-based approaches). To address this issue, a two-stage framework for visualizing the interpretability of deep neural networks, called Activation Optimized with Perturbation( AOP) , is designed to optimize activation maps generated by general activation-based methods with the help of perturbation-based methods. Finally, in order to obtain better explanations for different types of images, we further present an instance of the AOP framework, Smooth Integrated Gradient-based Class Activation Map( SIGCAM) , which proposes a weighted GradCAM by applying the feature map as weight coefficients and employs I-GOS to optimize the base-mask generated by weighted GradCAM. Experimental results on common-used benchmarks, including deletion and insertion tests on ImageNet-1k, and pointing game tests on COCO2017, show that the proposed AOP and SIGCAM outperform the current state-of-the-art methods significantly by generating higher quality image-based saliency maps.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16450,10.1609/aaai.v35i4.16450,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A PAC Framework for Aggregating Agents\'92 Judgments,Hanrui Zhang;Vincent Conitzer,"Specifying the objective function that an AI system should pursue can be challenging. Especially when the decisions to be made by the system have a moral component, input from multiple stakeholders is often required. We consider approaches that query them about their judgments in individual examples, and then aggregate these judgments into a general policy. We propose a formal learning-theoretic framework for this setting. We then give general results on how to translate classical results from PAC learning into results in our framework. Subsequently, we show that in some settings, better results can be obtained by working directly in our framework. Finally, we discuss how our model can be extended in a variety of ways for future research.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4059,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012237,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A PAC Learning Algorithm for LTL and Omega-Regular Objectives in MDPs,Mateo Perez;Fabio Somenzi;Ashutosh Trivedi,"Linear temporal logic( LTL) and omega-regular objectives---a superset of LTL---have seen recent use as a way to express non-Markovian objectives in reinforcement learning. We introduce a model-based probably approximately correct( PAC) learning algorithm for omega-regular objectives in Markov decision processes( MDPs). As part of the development of our algorithm, we introduce the epsilon-recurrence time: a measure of the speed at which a policy converges to the satisfaction of the omega-regular objective in the limit. We prove that our algorithm only requires a polynomial number of samples in the relevant parameters, and perform experiments which confirm our theory.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30148,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30148,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Pair-Approximation Method for Modelling the Dynamics of Multi-Agent Stochastic Games,Chen Chu;Zheng Yuan;Shuyue Hu;Chunjiang Mu;Zhen Wang,"Developing a dynamical model for learning in games has attracted much recent interest. In stochastic games, agents need to make decisions in multiple states, and transitions between states, in turn, influence the dynamics of strategies. While previous works typically focus either on 2-agent stochastic games or on normal form games under an infinite-agent setting, we aim at formally modelling the learning dynamics in stochastic games under the infinite-agent setting. With a novel use of pair-approximation method, we develop a formal model for myopic Q-learning in stochastic games with symmetric state transition. We verify the descriptive power of our model( a partial differential equation) across various games through comparisons with agent-based simulation results. Based on our proposed model, we can gain qualitative and quantitative insights into the influence of transition probabilities on the dynamics of strategies. In particular, we illustrate that a careful design of transition probabilities can help players overcome the social dilemmas and promote cooperation, even if agents are myopic learners.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25691,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25691,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A POMDP Formulation of Proactive Learning,Kyle Wray;Shlomo Zilberstein,"We cast the Proactive Learning( PAL) problem\'97Active Learning( AL) with multiple reluctant, fallible, cost-varying oracles\'97as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( POMDP). The agent selects an oracle at each time step to label a data point, while it maintains a belief over the true underlying correctness of its current dataset\'92s labels. The goal is to minimize labeling costs while considering the value of obtaining correct labels, thus maximizing final resultant classifier accuracy. We prove three properties that show our particular formulation leads to a structured and bounded-size set of belief points, enabling strong performance of point-based methods to solve the POMDP. Our method is compared with the original three algorithms proposed by Donmez and Carbonell and a simple baseline. We demonstrate that our approach matches or improves upon the original approach within five different oracle scenarios, each on two datasets. Finally, our algorithm provides a general, well-defined mathematical foundation to build upon.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10400,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10400,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Primal-Dual Online Algorithm for Online Matching Problem in Dynamic Environments,Yu-Hang Zhou;Peng Hu;Chen Liang;Huan Xu;Guangda Huzhang;Yinfu Feng;Qing Da;Xinshang Wang;An-Xiang Zeng,"Recently, the online matching problem has attracted much attention due to its wide application on real-world decision-making scenarios. In stationary environments, by adopting the stochastic user arrival model, existing methods are proposed to learn dual optimal prices and are shown to achieve a fast regret bound. However, the stochastic model is no longer a proper assumption when the environment is changing, leading to an optimistic method that may suffer poor performance. In this paper, we study the online matching problem in dynamic environments in which the dual optimal prices are allowed to vary over time. We bound the dynamic regret of online matching problem by the sum of two quantities, including a regret of online max-min problem and a dynamic regret of online convex optimization( OCO) problem. Then we propose a novel online approach named Primal-Dual Online Algorithm( PDOA) to minimize both quantities. In particular, PDOA adopts the primal-dual framework by optimizing dual prices with the online gradient descent( OGD) algorithm to eliminate the online max-min problems regret. Moreover, it maintains a set of OGD experts and combines them via an expert-tracking algorithm, which gives a sublinear dynamic regret bound for the OCO problem. We show that PDOA achieves an O( K sqrt\{T( 1+P_T) \}) dynamic regret where K is the number of resources, T is the number of iterations and P_T is the path-length of any potential dual price sequence that reflects the dynamic environment. Finally, experiments on real applications exhibit the superiority of our approach.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17331,10.1609/aaai.v35i12.17331,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Provably-Efficient Model-Free Algorithm for Infinite-Horizon Average-Reward Constrained Markov Decision Processes,Honghao Wei;Xin Liu;Lei Ying,"This paper presents a model-free reinforcement learning( RL) algorithm for infinite-horizon average-reward Constrained Markov Decision Processes( CMDPs). Considering a learning horizon K, which is sufficiently large, the proposed algorithm achieves sublinear regret and zero constraint violation. The bounds depend on the number of states S, the number of actions A, and two constants which are independent of the learning horizon K.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20302,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20302,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A PSPACE Subclass of Dependency Quantified Boolean Formulas and Its Effective Solving,Christoph Scholl;Jie-Hong Roland Jiang;Ralf Wimmer;Aile Ge-Ernst,"Dependency quantified Boolean formulas( DQBFs) are a powerful formalism, which subsumes quantified Boolean formulas( QBFs) and allows an explicit specification of dependencies of existential variables on universal variables. This enables a succinct encoding of decision problems in the NEXPTIME complexity class. As solving general DQBFs is NEXPTIME complete, in contrast to the PSPACE completeness of QBF solving, characterizing DQBF subclasses of lower computational complexity allows their effective solving and is of practical importance. Recently a DQBF proof calculus based on a notion of fork extension, in addition to resolution and universal reduction, was proposed by Rabe in 2017. We show that this calculus is in fact incomplete for general DQBFs, but complete for a subclass of DQBFs, where any two existential variables have either identical or disjoint dependency sets over the universal variables. We further characterize this DQBF subclass to be \uc0\u931 P3 complete in the polynomial time hierarchy. Essentially using fork extension, a DQBF in this subclass can be converted to an equisatisfiable 3QBF with only a linear increase in formula size. We exploit this conversion for effective solving of this DQBF subclass and point out its potential as a general strategy for DQBF quantifier localization. Experimental results show that the method outperforms state-of-the-art DQBF solvers on a number of benchmarks, including the 2018 DQBF evaluation benchmarks.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3973,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011584,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Recurrent Model for Collective Entity Linking with Adaptive Features,Xiaoling Zhou;Yukai Miao;Wei Wang;Jianbin Qin,"The vast amount of web data enables us to build knowledge bases with unprecedented quality and coverage. Named Entity Disambiguation( NED) is an important task that automatically resolves ambiguous mentions in free text to correct target entries in the knowledge base. Traditional machine learning based methods for NED were outperformed and made obsolete by the state-of-the-art deep learning based models. However, deep learning models are more complex, requiring large amount of training data and lengthy training and parameter tuning time. In this paper, we revisit traditional machine learning techniques and propose a light-weight, tuneable and time-efficient method without using deep learning or deep learning generated features. We propose novel adaptive features that focus on extracting discriminative features to better model similarities between candidate entities and the mentions context. We learn a local ranking model based on traditional and the new adaptive features based on the learning-to-rank framework. While arriving at linking decisions individually via the local model, our method also takes into consideration the correlation between decisions by running multiple recurrent global models, which can be deemed as a learned local search method. Our method attains performances comparable to the state-of-the-art deep learning-based methods on NED benchmark datasets while being significantly faster to train.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5367,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5367,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Recursive Scenario Decomposition Algorithm for Combinatorial Multistage Stochastic Optimisation Problems,David Hemmi;Guido Tack;Mark Wallace,"Stochastic programming is concerned with decision making under uncertainty, seeking an optimal policy with respect to a set of possible future scenarios. This paper looks at multistage decision problems where the uncertainty is revealed over time. First, decisions are made with respect to all possible future scenarios. Secondly, after observing the random variables, a set of scenario specific decisions is taken. Our goal is to develop algorithms that can be used as a back-end solver for high-level modeling languages. In this paper we propose a scenario decomposition method to solve multistage stochastic combinatorial decision problems recursively. Our approach is applicable to general problem structures, utilizes standard solving technology and is highly parallelizable. We provide experimental results to show how it efficiently solves benchmarks with hundreds of scenarios.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11525,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11525,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Risk-Sensitive Approach to Policy Optimization,Jared Markowitz;Ryan W. Gardner;Ashley Llorens;Raman Arora;I-Jeng Wang,"Standard deep reinforcement learning( DRL) aims to maximize expected reward, considering collected experiences equally in formulating a policy. This differs from human decision-making, where gains and losses are valued differently and outlying outcomes are given increased consideration. It also fails to capitalize on opportunities to improve safety and/or performance through the incorporation of distributional context. Several approaches to distributional DRL have been investigated, with one popular strategy being to evaluate the projected distribution of returns for possible actions. We propose a more direct approach whereby risk-sensitive objectives, specified in terms of the cumulative distribution function( CDF) of the distribution of full-episode rewards, are optimized. This approach allows for outcomes to be weighed based on relative quality, can be used for both continuous and discrete action spaces, and may naturally be applied in both constrained and unconstrained settings. We show how to compute an asymptotically consistent estimate of the policy gradient for a broad class of risk-sensitive objectives via sampling, subsequently incorporating variance reduction and regularization measures to facilitate effective on-policy learning. We then demonstrate that the use of moderately pessimistic risk profiles, which emphasize scenarios where the agent performs poorly, leads to enhanced exploration and a continual focus on addressing deficiencies. We test the approach using different risk profiles in six OpenAI Safety Gym environments, comparing to state of the art on-policy methods. Without cost constraints, we find that pessimistic risk profiles can be used to reduce cost while improving total reward accumulation. With cost constraints, they are seen to provide higher positive rewards than risk-neutral approaches at the prescribed allowable cost.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26753,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26753,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Sample-Efficient Algorithm for Episodic Finite-Horizon MDP with Constraints,Krishna C. Kalagarla;Rahul Jain;Pierluigi Nuzzo,"Constrained Markov decision processes( CMDPs) formalize sequential decision-making problems whose objective is to minimize a cost function while satisfying constraints on various cost functions. In this paper, we consider the setting of episodic fixed-horizon CMDPs. We propose an online algorithm which leverages the linear programming formulation of repeated optimistic planning for finite-horizon CMDP to provide a probably approximately correctness( PAC) guarantee on the number of episodes needed to ensure a near optimal policy, i. e. , with resulting objective value close to that of the optimal value and satisfying the constraints within low tolerance, with high probability. The number of episodes needed is shown to have linear dependence on the sizes of the state and action spaces and quadratic dependence on the time horizon and an upper bound on the number of possible successor states for a state-action pair. Therefore, if the upper bound on the number of possible successor states is much smaller than the size of the state space, the number of needed episodes becomes linear in the sizes of the state and action spaces and quadratic in the time horizon.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16979,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16979,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Scalable Framework to Choose Sellers in E-Marketplaces Using POMDPs,Athirai Irissappane;Frans A. Oliehoek;Jie Zhang,"In multiagent e-marketplaces, buying agents need to select good sellers by querying other buyers( called advisors). Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes( POMDPs) have shown to be an effective framework for optimally selecting sellers by selectively querying advisors. However, current solution methods do not scale to hundreds or even tens of agents operating in the e-market. In this paper, we propose the Mixture of POMDP Experts( MOPE) technique, which exploits the inherent structure of trust-based domains, such as the seller selection problem in e-markets, by aggregating the solutions of smaller sub-POMDPs. We propose a number of variants of the MOPE approach that we analyze theoretically and empirically. Experiments show that MOPE can scale up to a hundred agents thereby leveraging the presence of more advisors to significantly improve buyer satisfaction.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9995,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9995,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Scalable Two Stage Approach to Computing Optimal Decision Sets,Alexey Ignatiev;Edward Lam;Peter J. Stuckey;Joao Marques-Silva,"Machine learning( ML) is ubiquitous in modern life. Since it is being deployed in technologies that affect our privacy and safety, it is often crucial to understand the reasoning behind its decisions, warranting the need for explainable AI. Rule-based models, such as decision trees, decision lists, and decision sets, are conventionally deemed to be the most interpretable. Recent work uses propositional satisfiability( SAT) solving( and its optimization variants) to generate minimum-size decision sets. Motivated by limited practical scalability of these earlier methods, this paper proposes a novel approach to learn minimum-size decision sets by enumerating individual rules of the target decision set independently of each other, and then solving a set cover problem to select a subset of rules. The approach makes use of modern maximum satisfiability and integer linear programming technologies. Experiments on a wide range of publicly available datasets demonstrate the advantage of the new approach over the state of the art in SAT-based decision set learning.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16498,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16498,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Semi-parametric Model for Decision Making in High-Dimensional Sensory Discrimination Tasks,Stephen Keeley;Benjamin Letham;Craig Sanders;Chase Tymms;Michael Shvartsman,"Psychometric functions typically characterize binary sensory decisions along a single stimulus dimension. However, real-life sensory tasks vary along a greater variety of dimensions( e. g. color, contrast and luminance for visual stimuli). Approaches to characterizing high-dimensional sensory spaces either require strong parametric assumptions about these additional contextual dimensions, or fail to leverage known properties of classical psychometric curves. We overcome both limitations by introducing a semi-parametric model of sensory discrimination that applies traditional psychophysical models along a stimulus intensity dimension, but puts Gaussian process( GP) priors on the parameters of these models with respect to the remaining dimensions. By combining the flexibility of the GP with the deep literature on parametric psychophysics, our semi-parametric models achieve good performance with much less data than baselines on both synthetic and real-world, high-dimensional psychophysics datasets. We additionally show strong performance in a Bayesian active learning setting, and present a novel active learning paradigm for the semi-parametric model.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25074,10.1609/aaai.v37i1.25074,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Cognitive Modeling & Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Sequential Decision Approach to Ordinal Preferences in Recommender Systems,Truyen Tran;Dinh Phung;Svetha Venkatesh,"We propose a novel sequential decision approach to modeling ordinal ratings in collaborative filtering problems. The rating process is assumed to start from the lowest level, evaluates against the latent utility at the corresponding level and moves up until a suitable ordinal level is found. Crucial to this generative process is the underlying utility random variables that govern the generation of ratings and their modelling choices. To this end, we make a novel use of the generalised extreme value distributions, which is found to be particularly suitable for our modeling tasks and at the same time, facilitate our inference and learning procedure. The proposed approach is flexible to incorporate features from both the user and the item. We evaluate the proposed framework on three well-known datasets: MovieLens, Dating Agency and Netflix. In all cases, it is demonstrated that the proposed work is competitive against state-of-the-art collaborative filtering methods.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8201,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8201,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knowledge-Based Information Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Sequentially Fair Mechanism for Multiple Sensitive Attributes,Francois Hu;Philipp Ratz;Arthur Charpentier,"In the standard use case of Algorithmic Fairness, the goal is to eliminate the relationship between a sensitive variable and a corresponding score. Throughout recent years, the scientific community has developed a host of definitions and tools to solve this task, which work well in many practical applications. However, the applicability and effectivity of these tools and definitions becomes less straightfoward in the case of multiple sensitive attributes. To tackle this issue, we propose a sequential framework, which allows to progressively achieve fairness across a set of sensitive features. We accomplish this by leveraging multi-marginal Wasserstein barycenters, which extends the standard notion of Strong Demographic Parity to the case with multiple sensitive characteristics. This method also provides a closed-form solution for the optimal, sequentially fair predictor, permitting a clear interpretation of inter-sensitive feature correlations. Our approach seamlessly extends to approximate fairness, enveloping a framework accommodating the trade-off between risk and unfairness. This extension permits a targeted prioritization of fairness improvements for a specific attribute within a set of sensitive attributes, allowing for a case specific adaptation. A data-driven estimation procedure for the derived solution is developed, and comprehensive numerical experiments are conducted on both synthetic and real datasets. Our empirical findings decisively underscore the practical efficacy of our post-processing approach in fostering fair decision-making.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29143,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29143,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Sharp Leap from Quantified Boolean Formula to Stochastic Boolean Satisfiability Solving,Pei-Wei Chen;Yu-Ching Huang;Jie-Hong R. Jiang,"Stochastic Boolean Satisfiability( SSAT) is a powerful representation for the concise encoding of quantified decision problems with uncertainty. While it shares commonalities with quantified Boolean formula( QBF) satisfiability and has the same PSPACE-complete complexity, SSAT solving tends to be more challenging as it involves expensive model counting, a. k. a. Sharp-SAT. To date, SSAT solvers, especially those imposing no restrictions on quantification levels, remain much lacking. In this paper, we present a new SSAT solver based on the framework of clause selection and cube distribution previously proposed for QBF solving. With model counting integrated and learning techniques strengthened, our solver is general and effective. Experimental results demonstrate the overall superiority of the proposed algorithm in both solving performance and memory usage compared to the state-of-the-art solvers on a number of benchmark formulas.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16486,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16486,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Simulation-Based Evaluation Framework for Interactive AI Systems and Its Application,Maeda F. Hanafi;Yannis Katsis;Mart\'edn Santill\'e1n Cooper;Yunyao Li,"Interactive AI( IAI) systems are increasingly popular as the human-centered AI design paradigm is gaining strong traction. However, evaluating IAI systems, a key step in building such systems, is particularly challenging, as their output highly depends on the performed user actions. Developers often have to rely on limited and mostly qualitative data from ad-hoc user testing to assess and improve their systems. In this paper, we present InteractEva; a systematic evaluation framework for IAI systems. We also describe how we have applied InteractEva to evaluate a commercial IAI system, leading to both quality improvements and better data-driven design decisions.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21541,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21541,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Innovative Tools for Enabling AI Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Submodular Optimization Approach to Accountable Loan Approval,Kyungsik Lee;Hana Yoo;Sumin Shin;Wooyoung Kim;Yeonung Baek;Hyunjin Kang;Jaehyun Kim;Kee-Eung Kim,"In the field of finance, the underwriting process is an essential step in evaluating every loan application. During this stage, the borrowers creditworthiness and ability to repay the loan are assessed to ultimately decide whether to approve the loan application. One of the core components of underwriting is credit scoring, in which the probability of default is estimated. As such, there has been significant progress in enhancing the predictive accuracy of credit scoring models through the use of machine learning, but there still exists a need to ultimately construct an approval rule that takes into consideration additional criteria beyond the score itself. This construction process is traditionally done manually to ensure that the approval rule remains interpretable to humans. In this paper, we outline an automated system for optimizing a rule-based system for approving loan applications, which has been deployed at Hyundai Capital Services( HCS). The main challenge lay in creating a high-quality rule base that is simultaneously simple enough to be interpretable by risk analysts as well as customers, since the approval decision should be accountable. We addressed this challenge through principled submodular optimization. The deployment of our system has led to a 14% annual growth in the volume of loan services at HCS, while maintaining the target bad rate, and has resulted in the approval of customers who might have otherwise been rejected.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30310,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30310,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Deployed Highly Innovative Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Surprisingly Simple Continuous-Action POMDP Solver: Lazy Cross-Entropy Search Over Policy Trees,Marcus Hoerger;Hanna Kurniawati;Dirk Kroese;Nan Ye,"The Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( POMDP) provides a principled framework for decision making in stochastic partially observable environments. However, computing good solutions for problems with continuous action spaces remains challenging. To ease this challenge, we propose a simple online POMDP solver, called Lazy Cross-Entropy Search Over Policy Trees( LCEOPT). At each planning step, our method uses a novel lazy Cross-Entropy method to search the space of policy trees, which provide a simple policy representation. Specifically, we maintain a distribution on promising finite-horizon policy trees. The distribution is iteratively updated by sampling policies, evaluating them via Monte Carlo simulation, and refitting them to the top-performing ones. Our method is lazy in the sense that it exploits the policy tree representation to avoid redundant computations in policy sampling, evaluation, and distribution update. This leads to computational savings of up to two orders of magnitude. Our LCEOPT is surprisingly simple as compared to existing state-of-the-art methods, yet empirically outperforms them on several continuous-action POMDP problems, particularly for problems with higher-dimensional action spaces.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29992,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.29992,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Symbolic SAT-Based Algorithm for Almost-Sure Reachability with Small Strategies in POMDPs,Krishnendu Chatterjee;Martin Chmel\'edk;Jessica Davies,"POMDPs are standard models for probabilistic planning problems, where an agent interacts with an uncertain environment. We study the problem of almost-sure reachability, where given a set of target states, the question is to decide whether there is a policy to ensure that the target set is reached with probability 1( almost-surely). While in general the problem is EXPTIME-complete, in many practical cases policies with a small amount of memory suffice. Moreover, the existing solution to the problem is explicit, which first requires to construct explicitly an exponential reduction to a belief-support MDP. In this work, we first study the existence of observation-stationary strategies, which is NP-complete, and then small-memory strategies. We present a symbolic algorithm by an efficient encoding to SAT and using a SAT solver for the problem. We report experimental results demonstrating the scalability of our symbolic( SAT-based) approach.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10422,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10422,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A System for Medical Information Extraction and Verification from Unstructured Text,Damir Juric;Giorgos Stoilos;Andre Melo;Jonathan Moore;Mohammad Khodadadi,"A wealth of medical knowledge has been encoded in terminologies like SNOMED CT, NCI, FMA, and more. However, these resources are usually lacking information like relations between diseases, symptoms, and risk factors preventing their use in diagnostic or other decision making applications. In this paper we present a pipeline for extracting such information from unstructured text and enriching medical knowledge bases. Our approach uses Semantic Role Labelling and is unsupervised. We show how we dealt with several deficiencies of SRL-based extraction, like copula verbs, relations expressed through nouns, and assigning scores to extracted triples. The system have so far extracted about 120K relations and in-house doctors verified about 5k relationships. We compared the output of the system with a manually constructed network of diseases, symptoms and risk factors build by doctors in the course of a year. Our results show that our pipeline extracts good quality and precise relations and speeds up the knowledge acquisition process considerably.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/7042,10.1609/aaai.v34i08.7042,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Unified Knowledge Transfer Network for Generalized Category Discovery,Wenkai Shi;Wenbin An;Feng Tian;Yan Chen;Yaqiang Wu;Qianying Wang;Ping Chen,"Generalized Category Discovery( GCD) aims to recognize both known and novel categories in an unlabeled dataset by leveraging another labeled dataset with only known categories. Without considering knowledge transfer from known to novel categories, current methods usually perform poorly on novel categories due to the lack of corresponding supervision. To mitigate this issue, we propose a unified Knowledge Transfer Network( KTN) , which solves two obstacles to knowledge transfer in GCD. First, the mixture of known and novel categories in unlabeled data makes it difficult to identify transfer candidates( i. e. , samples with novel categories). For this, we propose an entropy-based method that leverages knowledge in the pre-trained classifier to differentiate known and novel categories without requiring extra data or parameters. Second, the lack of prior knowledge of novel categories presents challenges in quantifying semantic relationships between categories to decide the transfer weights. For this, we model different categories with prototypes and treat their similarities as transfer weights to measure the semantic similarities between categories. On the basis of two treatments, we transfer knowledge from known to novel categories by conducting pre-adjustment of logits and post-adjustment of labels for transfer candidates based on the transfer weights between different categories. With the weighted adjustment, KTN can generate more accurate pseudo-labels for unlabeled data, which helps to learn more discriminative features and boost model performance on novel categories. Extensive experiments show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art models on all evaluation metrics across multiple benchmark datasets. Furthermore, different from previous clustering-based methods that can only work offline with abundant data, KTN can be deployed online conveniently with faster inference speed. Code and data are available at https://github. com/yibai-shi/KTN.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29862,10.1609/aaai.v38i17.29862,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Unified Taylor Framework for Revisiting Attribution Methods,Huiqi Deng;Na Zou;Mengnan Du;Weifu Chen;Guocan Feng;Xia Hu,"Attribution methods have been developed to understand the decision making process of machine learning models, especially deep neural networks, by assigning importance scores to individual features. Existing attribution methods often built upon empirical intuitions and heuristics. There still lacks a general and theoretical framework that not only can unify these attribution methods, but also theoretically reveal their rationales, fidelity, and limitations. To bridge the gap, in this paper, we propose a Taylor attribution framework and reformulate seven mainstream attribution methods into the framework. Based on reformulations, we analyze the attribution methods in terms of rationale, fidelity, and limitation. Moreover, We establish three principles for a good attribution in the Taylor attribution framework, i. e. , low approximation error, correct contribution assignment, and unbiased baseline selection. Finally, we empirically validate the Taylor reformulations, and reveal a positive correlation between the attribution performance and the number of principles followed by the attribution method via benchmarking on real-world datasets.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17365,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17365,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Universal 2-state n-action Adaptive Management Solver,Luz Valerie Pascal;Marianne Akian;Sam Nicol;Iadine Chades,"In poor data and urgent decision-making applications, managers need to make decisions without complete knowledge of the system dynamics. In biodiversity conservation, adaptive management( AM) is the principal tool for decision-making under uncertainty. AM can be solved using simplified Mixed Observable Markov Decision Processes called hidden model MDPs( hmMDPs) when the unknown dynamics are assumed stationary. hmMDPs provide optimal policies to AM problems by augmenting the MDP state space with an unobservable state variable representing a finite set of predefined models. A drawback in formalising an AM problem is that experts are often solicited to provide this predefined set of models by specifying the transition matrices. Expert elicitation is a challenging and time-consuming process that is prone to biases, and a key assumption of hmMDPs is that the true transition matrix will be included in the candidate model set. We propose an original approach to build a hmMDP with a universal set of predefined models that is capable of solving any 2-state n-action AM problem. Our approach uses properties of the transition matrices to build the model set and is independent of expert input, removing the potential for expert error in the optimal solution. We provide analytical formulations to derive the minimum set of models to include into an hmMDP to solve any AM problems with 2 states and n actions. We assess our universal AM algorithm on two species conservation case studies from Australia and randomly generated problems.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17747,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17747,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A User-Adaptive Layer Selection Framework for Very Deep Sequential Recommender Models,Lei Chen;Fajie Yuan;Jiaxi Yang;Xiang Ao;Chengming Li;Min Yang,"Sequential recommender systems( SRS) have become a research hotspot in recent studies. Because of the requirement in capturing users dynamic interests, sequential neural network based recommender models often need to be stacked with more hidden layers( e. g. , up to 100 layers) compared with standard collaborative filtering methods. However, the high network latency has become the main obstacle when deploying very deep recommender models into a production environment. In this paper, we argue that the typical prediction framework that treats all users equally during the inference phase is inefficient in running time, as well as sub-optimal in accuracy. To resolve such an issue, we present SkipRec, an adaptive inference framework by learning to skip inactive hidden layers on a per-user basis. Specifically, we devise a policy network to automatically determine which layers should be retained and which layers are allowed to be skipped, so as to achieve user-specific decisions. To derive the optimal skipping policy, we propose using gumbel softmax and reinforcement learning to solve the non-differentiable problem during backpropagation. We perform extensive experiments on three real-world recommendation datasets, and demonstrate that SkipRec attains comparable or better accuracy with much less inference time.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16518,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16518,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Variational Perturbative Approach to Planning in Graph-Based Markov Decision Processes,Dominik Linzner;Heinz Koeppl,"Coordinating multiple interacting agents to achieve a common goal is a difficult task with huge applicability. This problem remains hard to solve, even when limiting interactions to be mediated via a static interaction-graph. We present a novel approximate solution method for multi-agent Markov decision problems on graphs, based on variational perturbation theory. We adopt the strategy of planning via inference, which has been explored in various prior works. We employ a non-trivial extension of a novel high-order variational method that allows for approximate inference in large networks and has been shown to surpass the accuracy of existing variational methods. To compare our method to two state-of-the-art methods for multi-agent planning on graphs, we apply the method different standard GMDP problems. We show that in cases, where the goal is encoded as a non-local cost function, our method performs well, while state-of-the-art methods approach the performance of random guess. In a final experiment, we demonstrate that our method brings significant improvement for synchronization tasks.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6210,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6210,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,A Voting-Based System for Ethical Decision Making,Ritesh Noothigattu;Snehalkumar Gaikwad;Edmond Awad;Sohan Dsouza;Iyad Rahwan;Pradeep Ravikumar;Ariel Procaccia,"We present a general approach to automating ethical decisions, drawing on machine learning and computational social choice. In a nutshell, we propose to learn a model of societal preferences, and, when faced with a specific ethical dilemma at runtime, efficiently aggregate those preferences to identify a desirable choice. We provide a concrete algorithm that instantiates our approach; some of its crucial steps are informed by a new theory of swap-dominance efficient voting rules. Finally, we implement and evaluate a system for ethical decision making in the autonomous vehicle domain, using preference data collected from 1. 3 million people through the Moral Machine website.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11512,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11512,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-Computation and Crowd Sourcing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Abduction-Based Explanations for Machine Learning Models,Alexey Ignatiev;Nina Narodytska;Joao Marques-Silva,"The growing range of applications of Machine Learning( ML) in a multitude of settings motivates the ability of computing small explanations for predictions made. Small explanations are generally accepted as easier for human decision makers to understand. Most earlier work on computing explanations is based on heuristic approaches, providing no guarantees of quality, in terms of how close such solutions are from cardinalityor subset-minimal explanations. This paper develops a constraint-agnostic solution for computing explanations for any ML model. The proposed solution exploits abductive reasoning, and imposes the requirement that the ML model can be represented as sets of constraints using some target constraint reasoning system for which the decision problem can be answered with some oracle. The experimental results, obtained on well-known datasets, validate the scalability of the proposed approach as well as the quality of the computed solutions.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3964,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011511,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Abstract Interpretation of Decision Tree Ensemble Classifiers,Francesco Ranzato;Marco Zanella,"We study the problem of formally and automatically verifying robustness properties of decision tree ensemble classifiers such as random forests and gradient boosted decision tree models. A recent stream of works showed how abstract interpretation, which is ubiquitously used in static program analysis, can be successfully deployed to formally verify( deep) neural networks. In this work we push forward this line of research by designing a general and principled abstract interpretation-based framework for the formal verification of robustness and stability properties of decision tree ensemble models. Our abstract interpretation-based method may induce complete robustness checks of standard adversarial perturbations and output concrete adversarial attacks. We implemented our abstract verification technique in a tool called silva, which leverages an abstract domain of not necessarily closed real hyperrectangles and is instantiated to verify random forests and gradient boosted decision trees. Our experimental evaluation on the MNIST dataset shows that silva provides a precise and efficient tool which advances the current state of the art in tree ensembles verification.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5998,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5998,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Accelerated Vector Pruning for Optimal POMDP Solvers,Erwin Walraven;Matthijs Spaan,"Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes( POMDPs) are powerful models for planning under uncertainty in partially observable domains. However, computing optimal solutions for POMDPs is challenging because of the high computational requirements of POMDP solution algorithms. Several algorithms use a subroutine to prune dominated vectors in value functions, which requires a large number of linear programs( LPs) to be solved and it represents a large part of the total running time. In this paper we show how the LPs in POMDP pruning subroutines can be decomposed using a Benders decomposition. The resulting algorithm incrementally adds LP constraints and uses only a small fraction of the constraints. Our algorithm significantly improves the performance of existing pruning methods and the commonly used incremental pruning algorithm. Our new variant of incremental pruning is the fastest optimal pruning-based POMDP algorithm.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11032,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11032,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Accelerating Adversarially Robust Model Selection for Deep Neural Networks via Racing,Matthias K\'f6nig;Holger H. Hoos;Jan N. van Rijn,"Recent research has introduced several approaches to formally verify the robustness of neural network models against perturbations in their inputs, such as the ones that occur in adversarial attacks. At the same time, this particular verification task is known to be computationally challenging. More specifically, assessing the robustness of a neural network against input perturbations can easily take several hours of compute time per input vector, even when using state-of-the-art verification approaches. In light of this, it becomes challenging to select from a given set of neural network models the one that is best in terms of robust accuracy, i. e. , the fraction of instances for which the model is known to be robust against adversarial perturbations, especially when given limited computing resources. To tackle this problem, we propose a racing method specifically adapted to the domain of robustness verification. This racing method utilises Delta-values, which can be seen as an efficiently computable proxy for the distance of a given input to a neural network model to the decision boundary. We present statistical evidence indicating significant differences in the empirical cumulative distribution between robust and non-robust inputs as a function of Delta-values. Using this information, we show that it is possible to reliably expose vulnerabilities in the model with relatively few input iterations. Overall, when applied to selecting the most robust network from sets of 31 MNIST and 27 CIFAR-10 networks, our proposed method achieves speedups of a factor of 108 and 42, respectively, in terms of cumulative running time compared to standard local robustness verification on the complete testing sets.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30121,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30121,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Accelerating Ranking in E-Commerce Search Engines through Contextual Factor Selection,Anxiang Zeng;Han Yu;Qing Da;Yusen Zhan;Chunyan Miao,"In large-scale search systems, the quality of the ranking results is continually improved with the introduction of more factors from complex procedures. Meanwhile, the increase in factors demands more computation resources and increases system response latency. It has been observed that, under some certain context a search instance may require only a small set of useful factors instead of all factors in order to return high quality results. Therefore, removing ineffective factors accordingly can significantly improve system efficiency. In this paper, we report our experience incorporating our Contextual Factor Selection( CFS) approach into the Taobao e-commerce platform to optimize the selection of factors based on the context of each search query in order to simultaneously achieve high quality search results while significantly reducing latency time. This problem is treated as a combinatorial optimization problem which can be tackled through a sequential decision-making procedure. The problem can be efficiently solved by CFS through a deep reinforcement learning method with reward shaping to address the problems of reward signal scarcity and wide reward signal distribution in real-world search engines. Through extensive off-line experiments based on data from the Taobao. com platform, CFS is shown to significantly outperform state-of-the-art approaches. Online deployment on Taobao. com demonstrated that CFS is able to reduce average search latency time by more than 40% compared to the previous approach with negligible reduction in search result quality. Under peak usage during the Singles Day Shopping Festival( November 11th) in 2017, CFS reduced peak load search latency time by 33% compared to the previous approach, helping Taobao. com achieve 40% higher revenue than the same period during 2016. Corrigendum The spelling of coauthor Yusen Zan in the paper Accelerating Ranking in E-Commerce Search Engines through Contextual Factor Selection has been changed from Zan to Zhan. The original spelling was a typographical error.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/7026,10.1609/aaai.v34i08.7026,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Deployed Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ACE: Cooperative Multi-Agent Q-learning with Bidirectional Action-Dependency,Chuming Li;Jie Liu;Yinmin Zhang;Yuhong Wei;Yazhe Niu;Yaodong Yang;Yu Liu;Wanli Ouyang,"Multi-agent reinforcement learning( MARL) suffers from the non-stationarity problem, which is the ever-changing targets at every iteration when multiple agents update their policies at the same time. Starting from first principle, in this paper, we manage to solve the non-stationarity problem by proposing bidirectional action-dependent Q-learning( ACE). Central to the development of ACE is the sequential decision making process wherein only one agent is allowed to take action at one time. Within this process, each agent maximizes its value function given the actions taken by the preceding agents at the inference stage. In the learning phase, each agent minimizes the TD error that is dependent on how the subsequent agents have reacted to their chosen action. Given the design of bidirectional dependency, ACE effectively turns a multi-agent MDP into a single-agent MDP. We implement the ACE framework by identifying the proper network representation to formulate the action dependency, so that the sequential decision process is computed implicitly in one forward pass. To validate ACE, we compare it with strong baselines on two MARL benchmarks. Empirical experiments demonstrate that ACE outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms on Google Research Football and StarCraft Multi-Agent Challenge by a large margin. In particular, on SMAC tasks, ACE achieves 100% success rate on almost all the hard and super hard maps. We further study extensive research problems regarding ACE, including extension, generalization and practicability.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26028,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.26028,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Achieving Counterfactual Fairness for Causal Bandit,Wen Huang;Lu Zhang;Xintao Wu,"In online recommendation, customers arrive in a sequential and stochastic manner from an underlying distribution and the online decision model recommends a chosen item for each arriving individual based on some strategy. We study how to recommend an item at each step to maximize the expected reward while achieving user-side fairness for customers, i. e. , customers who share similar profiles will receive a similar reward regardless of their sensitive attributes and items being recommended. By incorporating causal inference into bandits and adopting soft intervention to model the arm selection strategy, we first propose the d-separation based UCB algorithm( D-UCB) to explore the utilization of the d-separation set in reducing the amount of exploration needed to achieve low cumulative regret. Based on that, we then propose the fair causal bandit( F-UCB) for achieving the counterfactual individual fairness. Both theoretical analysis and empirical evaluation demonstrate effectiveness of our algorithms.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20653,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20653,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Achieving Long-Term Fairness in Sequential Decision Making,Yaowei Hu;Lu Zhang,"In this paper, we propose a framework for achieving long-term fair sequential decision making. By conducting both the hard and soft interventions, we propose to take path-specific effects on the time-lagged causal graph as a quantitative tool for measuring long-term fairness. The problem of fair sequential decision making is then formulated as a constrained optimization problem with the utility as the objective and the long-term and short-term fairness as constraints. We show that such an optimization problem can be converted to a performative risk optimization. Finally, repeated risk minimization( RRM) is used for model training, and the convergence of RRM is theoretically analyzed. The empirical evaluation shows the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm on synthetic and semi-synthetic temporal datasets.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21188,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21188,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Achieving Zero Constraint Violation for Constrained Reinforcement Learning via Conservative Natural Policy Gradient Primal-Dual Algorithm,Qinbo Bai;Amrit Singh Bedi;Vaneet Aggarwal,"We consider the problem of constrained Markov decision process( CMDP) in continuous state actions spaces where the goal is to maximize the expected cumulative reward subject to some constraints. We propose a novel Conservative Natural Policy Gradient Primal Dual Algorithm( CNPGPD) to achieve zero constraint violation while achieving state of the art convergence results for the objective value function. For general policy parametrization, we prove convergence of value function to global optimal upto an approximation error due to restricted policy class. We improve the sample complexity of existing constrained NPGPD algorithm. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to establish zero constraint violation with Natural policy gradient style algorithms for infinite horizon discounted CMDPs. We demonstrate the merits of proposed algorithm via experimental evaluations.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25826,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25826,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Achieving Zero Constraint Violation for Constrained Reinforcement Learning via Primal-Dual Approach,Qinbo Bai;Amrit Singh Bedi;Mridul Agarwal;Alec Koppel;Vaneet Aggarwal,"Reinforcement learning is widely used in applications where one needs to perform sequential decisions while interacting with the environment. The problem becomes more challenging when the decision requirement includes satisfying some safety constraints. The problem is mathematically formulated as constrained Markov decision process( CMDP). In the literature, various algorithms are available to solve CMDP problems in a model-free manner to achieve epsilon-optimal cumulative reward with epsilon feasible policies. An epsilon-feasible policy implies that it suffers from constraint violation. An important question here is whether we can achieve epsilon-optimal cumulative reward with zero constraint violations or not. To achieve that, we advocate the use of a randomized primal-dual approach to solve the CMDP problems and propose a conservative stochastic primal-dual algorithm( CSPDA) which is shown to exhibit O( 1/epsilon^2) sample complexity to achieve epsilon-optimal cumulative reward with zero constraint violations. In the prior works, the best available sample complexity for the epsilon-optimal policy with zero constraint violation is O( 1/epsilon^5). Hence, the proposed algorithm provides a significant improvement compared to the state of the art.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20281,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20281,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ACT: Empowering Decision Transformer with Dynamic Programming via Advantage Conditioning,Chen-Xiao Gao;Chenyang Wu;Mingjun Cao;Rui Kong;Zongzhang Zhang;Yang Yu,"Decision Transformer( DT) , which employs expressive sequence modeling techniques to perform action generation, has emerged as a promising approach to offline policy optimization. However, DT generates actions conditioned on a desired future return, which is known to bear some weaknesses such as the susceptibility to environmental stochasticity. To overcome DTs weaknesses, we propose to empower DT with dynamic programming. Our method comprises three steps. First, we employ in-sample value iteration to obtain approximated value functions, which involves dynamic programming over the MDP structure. Second, we evaluate action quality in context with estimated advantages. We introduce two types of advantage estimators, IAE and GAE, which are suitable for different tasks. Third, we train an Advantage-Conditioned Transformer( ACT) to generate actions conditioned on the estimated advantages. Finally, during testing, ACT generates actions conditioned on a desired advantage. Our evaluation results validate that, by leveraging the power of dynamic programming, ACT demonstrates effective trajectory stitching and robust action generation in spite of the environmental stochasticity, outperforming baseline methods across various benchmarks. Additionally, we conduct an in-depth analysis of ACTs various design choices through ablation studies. Our code is available at https://github. com/LAMDA-RL/ACT.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29101,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29101,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Acting and Planning Using Operational Models,Sunandita Patra;Malik Ghallab;Dana Nau;Paolo Traverso,"The most common representation formalisms for planning are descriptive models. They abstractly describe what the actions do and are tailored for efficiently computing the next state( s) in a state transition system. But acting requires operational models that describe how to do things, with rich control structures for closed-loop online decision-making. Using descriptive representations for planning and operational representations for acting can lead to problems with developing and verifying consistency of the different models. We define and implement an integrated acting-and-planning system in which both planning and acting use the same operational models, which are written in a general-purpose hierarchical task-oriented language offering rich control structures. The acting component is inspired by the well-known PRS system, except that instead of being purely reactive, it can get advice from the planner. Our planning algorithm, RAEplan, plans by doing Monte Carlo rollout simulations of the actor\'92s operational models. Our experiments show significant benefits in the efficiency of the acting and planning system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4764,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017691,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Action Branching Architectures for Deep Reinforcement Learning,Arash Tavakoli;Fabio Pardo;Petar Kormushev,"Discrete-action algorithms have been central to numerous recent successes of deep reinforcement learning. However, applying these algorithms to high-dimensional action tasks requires tackling the combinatorial increase of the number of possible actions with the number of action dimensions. This problem is further exacerbated for continuous-action tasks that require fine control of actions via discretization. In this paper, we propose a novel neural architecture featuring a shared decision module followed by several network branches, one for each action dimension. This approach achieves a linear increase of the number of network outputs with the number of degrees of freedom by allowing a level of independence for each individual action dimension. To illustrate the approach, we present a novel agent, called Branching Dueling Q-Network( BDQ) , as a branching variant of the Dueling Double Deep Q-Network( Dueling DDQN). We evaluate the performance of our agent on a set of challenging continuous control tasks. The empirical results show that the proposed agent scales gracefully to environments with increasing action dimensionality and indicate the significance of the shared decision module in coordination of the distributed action branches. Furthermore, we show that the proposed agent performs competitively against a state-of-the-art continuous control algorithm, Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient( DDPG).",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11798,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11798,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Action Candidate Based Clipped Double Q-learning for Discrete and Continuous Action Tasks,Haobo Jiang;Jin Xie;Jian Yang,"Double Q-learning is a popular reinforcement learning algorithm in Markov decision process( MDP) problems. Clipped Double Q-learning, as an effective variant of Double Q-learning, employs the clipped double estimator to approximate the maximum expected action value. Due to the underestimation bias of the clipped double estimator, performance of clipped Double Q-learning may be degraded in some stochastic environments. In this paper, in order to reduce the underestimation bias, we propose an action candidate based clipped double estimator for Double Q-learning. Specifically, we first select a set of elite action candidates with the high action values from one set of estimators. Then, among these candidates, we choose the highest valued action from the other set of estimators. Finally, we use the maximum value in the second set of estimators to clip the action value of the chosen action in the first set of estimators and the clipped value is used for approximating the maximum expected action value. Theoretically, the underestimation bias in our clipped Double Q-learning decays monotonically as the number of the action candidates decreases. Moreover, the number of action candidates controls the trade-off between the overestimation and underestimation biases. In addition, we also extend our clipped Double Q-learning to continuous action tasks via approximating the elite continuous action candidates. We empirically verify that our algorithm can more accurately estimate the maximum expected action value on some toy environments and yield good performance on several benchmark problems.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16973,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16973,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Actionable Ethics through Neural Learning,Daniele Rossini;Danilo Croce;Sara Mancini;Massimo Pellegrino;Roberto Basili,"While AI is going to produce a great impact on society, its alignment with human values and expectations is an essential step towards a correct harnessing of AI potentials for good. There is a corresponding growing need for mature and established technical standards to enable the assessment of an AI application as the evaluation of its graded adherence to formalized ethics. This is clearly dependent on methods to inject ethical awareness at all stages of an AI application development and use. For this reason we introduce the notion of Embedding Principles of ethics by Design( EPbD) as a comprehensive inductive framework. Although extending generic AI applications, it mainly aims at learning the ethical behaviour through numerical optimization, i. e. deep neural models. The core idea is to support ethics by integrating automated reasoning over formal knowledge and induction from ethically enriched training data. A deep neural network is proposed here to model both the functional as well as the ethical conditions characterizing a target decision. In this way, the discovery of latent ethical knowledge is enabled and made available to the learning process. The application of the above framework to a banking application, i. e. AI-driven Digital Lending, is used to show how accurate classification can be achieved without neglecting the ethical dimension. Results over existing datasets demonstrate that the ethical compliance of the sources can be used to output models able to optimally fine tune the balance between business and ethical accuracy.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6005,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6005,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Actional Atomic-Concept Learning for Demystifying Vision-Language Navigation,Bingqian Lin;Yi Zhu;Xiaodan Liang;Liang Lin;Jianzhuang Liu,"Vision-Language Navigation( VLN) is a challenging task which requires an agent to align complex visual observations to language instructions to reach the goal position. Most existing VLN agents directly learn to align the raw directional features and visual features trained using one-hot labels to linguistic instruction features. However, the big semantic gap among these multi-modal inputs makes the alignment difficult and therefore limits the navigation performance. In this paper, we propose Actional Atomic-Concept Learning( AACL) , which maps visual observations to actional atomic concepts for facilitating the alignment. Specifically, an actional atomic concept is a natural language phrase containing an atomic action and an object, e. g. , ``go up stairs. These actional atomic concepts, which serve as the bridge between observations and instructions, can effectively mitigate the semantic gap and simplify the alignment. AACL contains three core components: 1) a concept mapping module to map the observations to the actional atomic concept representations through the VLN environment and the recently proposed Contrastive Language-Image Pretraining( CLIP) model, 2) a concept refining adapter to encourage more instruction-oriented object concept extraction by re-ranking the predicted object concepts by CLIP, and 3) an observation co-embedding module which utilizes concept representations to regularize the observation representations. Our AACL establishes new state-of-the-art results on both fine-grained( R2R) and high-level( REVERIE and R2R-Last) VLN benchmarks. Moreover, the visualization shows that AACL significantly improves the interpretability in action decision. Code will be available at https://gitee. com/mindspore/models/tree/master/research/cv/VLN-AACL.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25243,10.1609/aaai.v37i2.25243,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Active Preference Learning Based on Generalized Gini Functions: Application to the Multiagent Knapsack Problem,Nadjet Bourdache;Patrice Perny,We consider the problem of actively eliciting preferences from a Decision Maker supervising a collective decision process in the context of fair multiagent combinatorial optimization. Individual preferences are supposed to be known and represented by linear utility functions defined on a combinatorial domain and the social utility is defined as a generalized Gini Social evaluation Function( GSF) for the sake of fairness. The GSF is a non-linear aggregation function parameterized by weighting coefficients which allow a fine control of the equity requirement in the aggregation of individual utilities. The paper focuses on the elicitation of these weights by active learning in the context of the fair multiagent knapsack problem. We introduce and compare several incremental decision procedures interleaving an adaptive preference elicitation procedure with a combinatorial optimization algorithm to determine a GSF-optimal solution. We establish an upper bound on the number of queries and provide numerical tests to show the efficiency of the proposed approach.,2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4770,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017741,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Actor Critic Deep Reinforcement Learning for Neural Malware Control,Yu Wang;Jack Stokes;Mady Marinescu,"In addition to using signatures, antimalware products also detect malicious attacks by evaluating unknown files in an emulated environment, i. e. sandbox, prior to execution on a computers native operating system. During emulation, a file cannot be scanned indefinitely, and antimalware engines often set the number of instructions to be executed based on a set of heuristics. These heuristics only make the decision of when to halt emulation using partial information leading to the execution of the file for either too many or too few instructions. Also this method is vulnerable if the attackers learn this set of heuristics. Recent research uses a deep reinforcement learning( DRL) model employing a Deep Q-Network( DQN) to learn when to halt the emulation of a file. In this paper, we propose a new DRL-based system which instead employs a modified actor critic( AC) framework for the emulation halting task. This AC model dynamically predicts the best time to halt the files execution based on a sequence of system API calls. Compared to the earlier models, the new model is capable of handling adversarial attacks by simulating their behaviors using the critic model. The new AC model demonstrates much better performance than both the DQN model and antimalware engines heuristics. In terms of execution speed( evaluated by the halting decision) , the new model halts the execution of unknown files by up to 2. 5% earlier than the DQN model and 93. 6% earlier than the heuristics. For the task of detecting malicious files, the proposed AC model increases the true positive rate by 9. 9% from 69. 5% to 76. 4% at a false positive rate of 1% compared to the DQN model, and by 83. 4% from 41. 2% to 76. 4% at a false positive rate of 1% compared to a recently proposed LSTM model.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5449,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5449,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AdapSafe: Adaptive and Safe-Certified Deep Reinforcement Learning-Based Frequency Control for Carbon-Neutral Power Systems,Xu Wan;Mingyang Sun;Boli Chen;Zhongda Chu;Fei Teng,"With the increasing penetration of inverter-based renewable energy resources, deep reinforcement learning( DRL) has been proposed as one of the most promising solutions to realize real-time and autonomous control for future carbon-neutral power systems. In particular, DRL-based frequency control approaches have been extensively investigated to overcome the limitations of model-based approaches, such as the computational cost and scalability for large-scale systems. Nevertheless, the real-world implementation of DRLbased frequency control methods is facing the following fundamental challenges: 1) safety guarantee during the learning and decision-making processes; 2) adaptability against the dynamic system operating conditions. To this end, this is the first work that proposes an Adaptive and Safe-Certified DRL( AdapSafe) algorithm for frequency control to simultaneously address the aforementioned challenges. In particular, a novel self-tuning control barrier function is designed to actively compensate the unsafe frequency control strategies under variational safety constraints and thus achieve guaranteed safety. Furthermore, the concept of meta-reinforcement learning is integrated to significantly enhance its adaptiveness in non-stationary power system environments without sacrificing the safety cost. Experiments are conducted based on GB 2030 power system, and the results demonstrate that the proposed AdapSafe exhibits superior performance in terms of its guaranteed safety in both training and test phases, as well as its considerable adaptability against the dynamics changes of system parameters.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25660,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25660,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adapt to Environment Sudden Changes by Learning a Context Sensitive Policy,Fan-Ming Luo;Shengyi Jiang;Yang Yu;ZongZhang Zhang;Yi-Feng Zhang,"Dealing with real-world reinforcement learning( RL) tasks, we shall be aware that the environment may have sudden changes. We expect that a robust policy is able to handle such changes and adapt to the new environment rapidly. Context-based meta reinforcement learning aims at learning environment adaptable policies. These methods adopt a context encoder to perceive the environment on-the-fly, following which a contextual policy makes environment adaptive decisions according to the context. However, previous methods show lagged and unstable context extraction, which are hard to handle sudden changes well. This paper proposes an environment sensitive contextual policy learning( ESCP) approach, in order to improve both the sensitivity and the robustness of context encoding. ESCP is composed of three key components: variance minimization that forces a rapid and stable encoding of the environment context, relational matrix determinant maximization that avoids trivial solutions, and a history-truncated recurrent neural network model that avoids old memory interference. We use a grid-world task and 5 locomotion controlling tasks with changing parameters to empirically assess our algorithm. Experiment results show that in environments with both in-distribution and out-of-distribution parameter changes, ESCP can not only better recover the environment encoding, but also adapt more rapidly to the post-change environment( 10x faster in the grid-world) while the return performance is kept or improved, compared with state-of-the-art meta RL methods.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20730,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20730,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adaptable Regression Method for Ensemble Consensus Forecasting,John Williams;Peter Neilley;Joseph Koval;Jeff McDonald,"Accurate weather forecasts enhance sustainability by facilitating decision making across a broad range of endeavors including public safety, transportation, energy generation and management, retail logistics, emergency preparedness, and many others. This paper presents a method for combining multiple scalar forecasts to obtain deterministic predictions that are generally more accurate than any of the constituents. Exponentially-weighted forecast bias estimates and error covariance matrices are formed at observation sites, aggregated spatially and temporally, and used to formulate a constrained, regularized least squares regression problem that may be solved using quadratic programming. The model is re-trained when new observations arrive, updating the forecast bias estimates and consensus combination weights to adapt to weather regime and input forecast model changes. The algorithm is illustrated for 0-72 hour temperature forecasts at over 1200 sites in the contiguous U. S. based on a 22-member forecast ensemble, and its performance over multiple seasons is compared to a state-of-the-art ensemble-based forecasting system. In addition to weather forecasts, this approach to consensus may be useful for ensemble predictions of climate, wind energy, solar power, energy demand, and numerous other quantities.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9913,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9913,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track: Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adapting a Kidney Exchange Algorithm to Align With Human Values,Rachel Freedman;Jana Schaich Borg;Walter Sinnott-Armstrong;John Dickerson;Vincent Conitzer,"The efficient allocation of limited resources is a classical problem in economics and computer science. In kidney exchanges, a central market maker allocates living kidney donors to patients in need of an organ. Patients and donors in kidney exchanges are prioritized using ad-hoc weights decided on by committee and then fed into an allocation algorithm that determines who get what\'97and who does not. In this paper, we provide an end-to-end methodology for estimating weights of individual participant profiles in a kidney exchange. We first elicit from human subjects a list of patient attributes they consider acceptable for the purpose of prioritizing patients( e. g. , medical characteristics, lifestyle choices, and so on). Then, we ask subjects comparison queries between patient profiles and estimate weights in a principled way from their responses. We show how to use these weights in kidney exchange market clearing algorithms. We then evaluate the impact of the weights in simulations and find that the precise numerical values of the weights we computed matter little, other than the ordering of profiles that they imply. However, compared to not prioritizing patients at all, there is a significant effect, with certain classes of patients being( de) prioritized based on the human-elicited value judgments.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11505,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11505,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adapting to Concept Drift in Credit Card Transaction Data Streams Using Contextual Bandits and Decision Trees,Dennis Soemers;Tim Brys;Kurt Driessens;Mark Winands;Ann Now\'e9,"Credit card transactions predicted to be fraudulent by automated detection systems are typically handed over to human experts for verification. To limit costs, it is standard practice to select only the most suspicious transactions for investigation. We claim that a trade-off between exploration and exploitation is imperative to enable adaptation to changes in behavior( concept drift). Exploration consists of the selection and investigation of transactions with the purpose of improving predictive models, and exploitation consists of investigating transactions detected to be suspicious. Modeling the detection of fraudulent transactions as rewarding, we use an incremental Regression Tree learner to create clusters of transactions with similar expected rewards. This enables the use of a Contextual Multi-Armed Bandit( CMAB) algorithm to provide the exploration/exploitation trade-off. We introduce a novel variant of a CMAB algorithm that makes use of the structure of this tree, and use Semi-Supervised Learning to grow the tree using unlabeled data. The approach is evaluated on a real dataset and data generated by a simulator that adds concept drift by adapting the behavior of fraudsters to avoid detection. It outperforms frequently used offline models in terms of cumulative rewards, in particular in the presence of concept drift.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11411,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11411,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI18 - Emerging,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adaptive Energy Management for Self-Sustainable Wearables in Mobile Health,Dina Hussein;Ganapati Bhat;Janardhan Rao Doppa,"Wearable devices that integrate multiple sensors, processors, and communication technologies have the potential to transform mobile health for remote monitoring of health parameters. However, the small form factor of the wearable devices limits the battery size and operating lifetime. As a result, the devices require frequent recharging, which has limited their widespread adoption. Energy harvesting has emerged as an effective method towards sustainable operation of wearable devices. Unfortunately, energy harvesting alone is not sufficient to fulfill the energy requirements of wearable devices. This paper studies the novel problem of adaptive energy management towards the goal of self-sustainable wearables by using harvested energy to supplement the battery energy and to reduce manual recharging by users. To solve this problem, we propose a principled algorithm referred as AdaEM. There are two key ideas behind AdaEM. First, it uses machine learning( ML) methods to learn predictive models of user activity and energy usage patterns. These models allow us to estimate the potential of energy harvesting in a day as a function of the user activities. Second, it reasons about the uncertainty in predictions and estimations from the ML models to optimize the energy management decisions using a dynamic robust optimization( DyRO) formulation. We propose a light-weight solution for DyRO to meet the practical needs of deployment. We validate the AdaEM approach on a wearable device prototype consisting of solar and motion energy harvesting using real-world data of user activities. Experiments show that AdaEM achieves solutions that are within 5% of the optimal with less than 0. 005% execution time and energy overhead.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21451,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21451,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adaptive Pattern-Parameter Matching for Robust Pedestrian Detection,Mengyin Liu;Chao Zhu;Jun Wang;Xu-Cheng Yin,"Pedestrians with challenging patterns, e. g. small scale or heavy occlusion, appear frequently in practical applications like autonomous driving, which remains tremendous obstacle to higher robustness of detectors. Although plenty of previous works have been dedicated to these problems, properly matching patterns of pedestrian and parameters of detector, i. e. , constructing a detector with proper parameter sizes for certain pedestrian patterns of different complexity, has been seldom investigated intensively. Pedestrian instances are usually handled equally with the same amount of parameters, which in our opinion is inadequate for those with more difficult patterns and leads to unsatisfactory performance. Thus, we propose in this paper a novel detection approach via adaptive pattern-parameter matching. The input pedestrian patterns, especially the complex ones, are first disentangled into simpler patterns for detection head by Pattern Disentangling Module( PDM) with various receptive fields. Then, Gating Feature Filtering Module( GFFM) dynamically decides the spatial positions where the patterns are still not simple enough and need further disentanglement by the next-level PDM. Cooperating with these two key components, our approach can adaptively select the best matched parameter size for the input patterns according to their complexity. Moreover, to further explore the relationship between parameter sizes and their performance on the corresponding patterns, two parameter selection policies are designed: 1) extending parameter size to maximum, aiming at more difficult patterns for different occlusion types; 2) specializing parameter size by group division, aiming at complex patterns for scale variations. Extensive experiments on two popular benchmarks, Caltech and CityPersons, show that our proposed method achieves superior performance compared with other state-of-the-art methods on subsets of different scales and occlusion types.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16313,10.1609/aaai.v35i3.16313,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adaptive Quantitative Trading: An Imitative Deep Reinforcement Learning Approach,Yang Liu;Qi Liu;Hongke Zhao;Zhen Pan;Chuanren Liu,"In recent years, considerable efforts have been devoted to developing AI techniques for finance research and applications. For instance, AI techniques( e. g. , machine learning) can help traders in quantitative trading( QT) by automating two tasks: market condition recognition and trading strategies execution. However, existing methods in QT face challenges such as representing noisy high-frequent financial data and finding the balance between exploration and exploitation of the trading agent with AI techniques. To address the challenges, we propose an adaptive trading model, namely iRDPG, to automatically develop QT strategies by an intelligent trading agent. Our model is enhanced by deep reinforcement learning( DRL) and imitation learning techniques. Specifically, considering the noisy financial data, we formulate the QT process as a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( POMDP). Also, we introduce imitation learning to leverage classical trading strategies useful to balance between exploration and exploitation. For better simulation, we train our trading agent in the real financial market using minute-frequent data. Experimental results demonstrate that our model can extract robust market features and be adaptive in different markets.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5587,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5587,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adaptive Verifiable Training Using Pairwise Class Similarity,Shiqi Wang;Kevin Eykholt;Taesung Lee;Jiyong Jang;Ian Molloy,"Verifiable training has shown success in creating neural networks that are provably robust to a given amount of noise. However, despite only enforcing a single robustness criterion, its performance scales poorly with dataset complexity. On CIFAR10, a non-robust LeNet model has a 21. 63% error rate, while a model created using verifiable training and a L-infinity robustness criterion of 8/255, has an error rate of 57. 10%. Upon examination, we find that when labeling visually similar classes, the models error rate is as high as 61. 65%. Thus, we attribute the loss in performance to inter-class similarity. Classes that are similar( i. e. , close in the feature space) increase the difficulty of learning a robust model. While it may be desirable to train a model to be robust for a large robustness region, pairwise class similarities limit the potential gains. Furthermore, consideration must be made regarding the relative cost of mistaking one class for another. In security or safety critical tasks, similar classes are likely to belong to the same group, and thus are equally sensitive. In this work, we propose a new approach that utilizes inter-class similarity to improve the performance of verifiable training and create robust models with respect to multiple adversarial criteria. First, we cluster similar classes using agglomerate clustering and assign robustness criteria based on the degree of similarity between clusters. Next, we propose two methods to apply our approach:( 1) the Inter-Group Robustness Prioritization method, which uses a custom loss term to create a single model with multiple robustness guarantees and( 2) the neural decision tree method, which trains multiple sub-classifiers with different robustness guarantees and combines them in a decision tree architecture. Our experiments on Fashion-MNIST and CIFAR10 demonstrate that by prioritizing the robustness between the most dissimilar groups, we improve clean performance by up to 9. 63% and 30. 89% respectively. Furthermore, on CIFAR100, our approach reduces the clean error rate by 26. 32%.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17223,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17223,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ADDMC: Weighted Model Counting with Algebraic Decision Diagrams,Jeffrey Dudek;Vu Phan;Moshe Vardi,"We present an algorithm to compute exact literal-weighted model counts of Boolean formulas in Conjunctive Normal Form. Our algorithm employs dynamic programming and uses Algebraic Decision Diagrams as the main data structure. We implement this technique in ADDMC, a new model counter. We empirically evaluate various heuristics that can be used with ADDMC. We then compare ADDMC to four state-of-the-art weighted model counters( Cachet, c2d, d4, and miniC2D) on 1914 standard model counting benchmarks and show that ADDMC significantly improves the virtual best solver.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5505,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5505,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Addressing Action Oscillations through Learning Policy Inertia,Chen Chen;Hongyao Tang;Jianye Hao;Wulong Liu;Zhaopeng Meng,"Deep reinforcement learning( DRL) algorithms have been demonstrated to be effective on a wide range of challenging decision making and control tasks. However, these methods typically suffer from severe action oscillations in particular in discrete action setting, which means that agents select different actions within consecutive steps even though states only slightly differ. This issue is often neglected since we usually evaluate the quality of a policy using cumulative rewards only. Action oscillation strongly affects the user experience and even causes serious potential security menace especially in real-world domains with the main concern of safety, such as autonomous driving. In this paper, we introduce Policy Inertia Controller( PIC) which serves as a generic plug-in framework to off-the-shelf DRL algorithms, to enable adaptive balance between the optimality and smoothness in a formal way. We propose Nested Policy Iteration as a general training algorithm for PIC-augmented policy which ensures monotonically non-decreasing updates. Further, we derive a practical DRL algorithm, namely Nested Soft Actor-Critic. Experiments on a collection of autonomous driving tasks and several Atari games suggest that our approach demonstrates substantial oscillation reduction than a range of commonly adopted baselines with almost no performance degradation.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16864,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16864,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adversarial Permutation Guided Node Representations for Link Prediction,Indradyumna Roy;Abir De;Soumen Chakrabarti,"After observing a snapshot of a social network, a link prediction( LP) algorithm identifies node pairs between which new edges will likely materialize in future. Most LP algorithms estimate a score for currently non-neighboring node pairs, and rank them by this score. Recent LP systems compute this score by comparing dense, low dimensional vector representations of nodes. Graph neural networks( GNNs) , in particular graph convolutional networks( GCNs) , are popular examples. For two nodes to be meaningfully compared, their embeddings should be indifferent to reordering of their neighbors. GNNs typically use simple, symmetric set aggregators to ensure this property, but this design decision has been shown to produce representations with limited expressive power. Sequence encoders are more expressive, but are permutation sensitive by design. Recent efforts to overcome this dilemma turn out to be unsatisfactory for LP tasks. In response, we propose PermGNN, which aggregates neighbor features using a recurrent, order-sensitive aggregator and directly minimizes an LP loss while it is `attacked by adversarial generator of neighbor permutations. PermGNN has superior expressive power compared to earlier GNNs. Next, we devise an optimization framework to map PermGNNs node embeddings to a suitable locality-sensitive hash, which speeds up reporting the top-K most likely edges for the LP task. Our experiments on diverse datasets show that PermGNN outperforms several state-of-the-art link predictors by a significant margin, and can predict the most likely edges fast.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17138,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17138,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Adversarial Training for Improving Model Robustness? Look at Both Prediction and Interpretation,Hanjie Chen;Yangfeng Ji,"Neural language models show vulnerability to adversarial examples which are semantically similar to their original counterparts with a few words replaced by their synonyms. A common way to improve model robustness is adversarial training which follows two steps\'97collecting adversarial examples by attacking a target model, and fine-tuning the model on the augmented dataset with these adversarial examples. The objective of traditional adversarial training is to make a model produce the same correct predictions on an original/adversarial example pair. However, the consistency between model decision-makings on two similar texts is ignored. We argue that a robust model should behave consistently on original/adversarial example pairs, that is making the same predictions( what) based on the same reasons( how) which can be reflected by consistent interpretations. In this work, we propose a novel feature-level adversarial training method named FLAT. FLAT aims at improving model robustness in terms of both predictions and interpretations. FLAT incorporates variational word masks in neural networks to learn global word importance and play as a bottleneck teaching the model to make predictions based on important words. FLAT explicitly shoots at the vulnerability problem caused by the mismatch between model understandings on the replaced words and their synonyms in original/adversarial example pairs by regularizing the corresponding global word importance scores. Experiments show the effectiveness of FLAT in improving the robustness with respect to both predictions and interpretations of four neural network models( LSTM, CNN, BERT, and DeBERTa) to two adversarial attacks on four text classification tasks. The models trained via FLAT also show better robustness than baseline models on unforeseen adversarial examples across different attacks.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21289,10.1609/aaai.v36i10.21289,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Agent Incentives: A Causal Perspective,Tom Everitt;Ryan Carey;Eric D. Langlois;Pedro A. Ortega;Shane Legg,"We present a framework for analysing agent incentives using causal influence diagrams. We establish that a well-known criterion for value of information is complete. We propose a new graphical criterion for value of control, establishing its soundness and completeness. We also introduce two new concepts for incentive analysis: response incentives indicate which changes in the environment affect an optimal decision, while instrumental control incentives establish whether an agent can influence its utility via a variable X. For both new concepts, we provide sound and complete graphical criteria. We show by example how these results can help with evaluating the safety and fairness of an AI system",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17368,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17368,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Agent-Human Coordination with Communication Costs Under Uncertainty,Asaf Frieder;Raz Lin;Sarit Kraus,"Coordination in mixed agent-human environments is an important, yet not a simple, problem. Little attention has been given to the issues raised in teams that consist of both computerized agents and people. In such situations different considerations are in order, as people tend to make mistakes and they are affected by cognitive, social and cultural factors. In this paper we present a novel agent designed to proficiently coordinate with a human counterpart. The agent uses a neural network model that is based on a pre-existing knowledge base which allows it to achieve an efficient modeling of a humans decisions and predict their behavior. A novel communication mechanism which takes into account the expected effect of communication on the other member will allow communication costs to be minimized. In extensive simulations involving more than 200 people we investigated our approach and showed that our agent achieves better coordination when involved, compared to settings in which only humans or another state-of-the-art agent are involved.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8329,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8329,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multidisciplinary Topics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AI and Parallelism in CS1: Experiences and Analysis,Steven Bogaerts,"This work considers the use of AI and parallelism as a context for learning typical programming concepts in an introductory programming course( CS1). The course includes exercises in decision trees, a novel game called Find the Gnomes to introduce supervised learning, the construction and application of a vectorized neural network unit class, and obtaining speedup in training through parallelism. The exercises are designed to teach students typical introductory programming concepts while also providing a preview and motivating example of advanced CS topics. Students understanding and motivation are considered through a detailed analysis of preand post-survey data gathered in several sections of the course each taught by one of four instructors across five semesters.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26876,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26876,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Main Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AI Risk Profiles: A Standards Proposal for Pre-deployment AI Risk Disclosures,Eli Sherman;Ian Eisenberg,"As AI systems\'92 sophistication and proliferation have increased, awareness of the risks has grown proportionally. The AI industry is increasingly emphasizing the need for transparency, with proposals ranging from standardizing use of technical disclosures, like model cards, to regulatory licensing regimes. Since the AI value chain is complicated, with actors bringing varied expertise, perspectives, and values, it is crucial that consumers of transparency disclosures be able to understand the risks of the AI system in question. In this paper we propose a risk profiling standard which can guide downstream decision-making, including triaging further risk assessment, informing procurement and deployment, and directing regulatory frameworks. The standard is built on our proposed taxonomy of AI risks, which distills the wide variety of risks proposed in the literature into a high-level categorization. We outline the myriad data sources needed to construct informative Risk Profiles and propose a template and methodology for collating risk information into a standard, yet flexible, structure. We apply this methodology to a number of prominent AI systems using publicly available information. To conclude, we discuss design decisions for the profiles and future work.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30348,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30348,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on AI Incidents and Best Practices,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Algorithmic and Human Teaching of Sequential Decision Tasks,Maya Cakmak;Manuel Lopes,"A helpful teacher can significantly improve the learning rate of a learning agent. Teaching algorithms have been formally studied within the field of Algorithmic Teaching. These give important insights into how a teacher can select the most informative examples while teachinga new concept. However the field has so far focused purely on classification tasks. In this paper we introducea novel method for optimally teaching sequential decision tasks. We present an algorithm that automatically selects the set of most informative demonstrations andevaluate it on several navigation tasks. Next, we explore the idea of using this algorithm to produce instructions for humans on how to choose examples when teaching sequential decision tasks. We present a user study that demonstrates the utility of such instructions.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8333,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8333,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multidisciplinary Topics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Algorithmic Fairness Verification with Graphical Models,Bishwamittra Ghosh;Debabrota Basu;Kuldeep S Meel,"In recent years, machine learning( ML) algorithms have been deployed in safety-critical and high-stake decision-making, where the fairness of algorithms is of paramount importance. Fairness in ML centers on detecting bias towards certain demographic populations induced by an ML classifier and proposes algorithmic solutions to mitigate the bias with respect to different fairness definitions. To this end, several fairness verifiers have been proposed that compute the bias in the prediction of an ML classifier\'97essentially beyond a finite dataset\'97given the probability distribution of input features. In the context of verifying linear classifiers, existing fairness verifiers are limited by accuracy due to imprecise modeling of correlations among features and scalability due to restrictive formulations of the classifiers as SSAT/SMT formulas or by sampling. In this paper, we propose an efficient fairness verifier, called FVGM, that encodes the correlations among features as a Bayesian network. In contrast to existing verifiers, FVGM proposes a stochastic subset-sum based approach for verifying linear classifiers. Experimentally, we show that FVGM leads to an accurate and scalable assessment for more diverse families of fairness-enhancing algorithms, fairness attacks, and group/causal fairness metrics than the state-of-the-art fairness verifiers. We also demonstrate that FVGM facilitates the computation of fairness influence functions as a stepping stone to detect the source of bias induced by subsets of features.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21187,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21187,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Algorithms for Average Regret Minimization,Sabine Storandt;Stefan Funke,"In this paper, we study a problem from the realm of multicriteria decision making in which the goal is to select from a given set S of d-dimensional objects a minimum sized subset S0 with bounded regret. Thereby, regret measures the unhappiness of users which would like to select their favorite object from set S but now can only select their favorite object from the subset S0. Previous work focused on bounding the maximum regret which is determined by the most unhappy user. We propose to consider the average regret instead which is determined by the sum of( un) happiness of all possible users. We show that this regret measure comes with desirable properties as supermodularity which allows to construct approximation algorithms. Furthermore, we introduce the regret minimizing permutation problem and discuss extensions of our algorithms to the recently proposed k-regret measure. Our theoretical results are accompanied with experiments on a variety of inputs with d up to 7.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3975,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011600,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Aligning Domain-Specific Distribution and Classifier for Cross-Domain Classification from Multiple Sources,Yongchun Zhu;Fuzhen Zhuang;Deqing Wang,"While Unsupervised Domain Adaptation( UDA) algorithms, i. e. , there are only labeled data from source domains, have been actively studied in recent years, most algorithms and theoretical results focus on Single-source Unsupervised Domain Adaptation( SUDA). However, in the practical scenario, labeled data can be typically collected from multiple diverse sources, and they might be different not only from the target domain but also from each other. Thus, domain adapters from multiple sources should not be modeled in the same way. Recent deep learning based Multi-source Unsupervised Domain Adaptation( MUDA) algorithms focus on extracting common domain-invariant representations for all domains by aligning distribution of all pairs of source and target domains in a common feature space. However, it is often very hard to extract the same domain-invariant representations for all domains in MUDA. In addition, these methods match distributions without considering domain-specific decision boundaries between classes. To solve these problems, we propose a new framework with two alignment stages for MUDA which not only respectively aligns the distributions of each pair of source and target domains in multiple specific feature spaces, but also aligns the outputs of classifiers by utilizing the domainspecific decision boundaries. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our method can achieve remarkable results on popular benchmark datasets for image classification.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4551,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015989,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AlphaHoldem: High-Performance Artificial Intelligence for Heads-Up No-Limit Poker via End-to-End Reinforcement Learning,Enmin Zhao;Renye Yan;Jinqiu Li;Kai Li;Junliang Xing,"Heads-up no-limit Texas hold\'92em( HUNL) is the quintessential game with imperfect information. Representative priorworks like DeepStack and Libratus heavily rely on counter-factual regret minimization( CFR) and its variants to tackleHUNL. However, the prohibitive computation cost of CFRiteration makes it difficult for subsequent researchers to learnthe CFR model in HUNL and apply it in other practical applications. In this work, we present AlphaHoldem, a high-performance and lightweight HUNL AI obtained with an end-to-end self-play reinforcement learning framework. The proposed framework adopts a pseudo-siamese architecture to directly learn from the input state information to the output actions by competing the learned model with its different historical versions. The main technical contributions include anovel state representation of card and betting information, amultitask self-play training loss function, and a new modelevaluation and selection metric to generate the final model. In a study involving 100, 000 hands of poker, AlphaHoldemdefeats Slumbot and DeepStack using only one PC with threedays training. At the same time, AlphaHoldem only takes 2. 9milliseconds for each decision-making using only a singleGPU, more than 1, 000 times faster than DeepStack. We release the history data among among AlphaHoldem, Slumbot, and top human professionals in the author\'92s GitHub repository to facilitate further studies in this direction.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20394,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20394,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) Of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Amsterdam to Dublin Eventually Delayed? LSTM and Transfer Learning for Predicting Delays of Low Cost Airlines,Nicholas McCarthy;Mohammad Karzand;Freddy Lecue,"Flight delays impact airlines, airports and passengers. Delay prediction is crucial during the decision-making process for all players in commercial aviation, and in particular for airlines to meet their on-time performance objectives. Although many machine learning approaches have been experimented with, they fail in( i) predicting delays in minutes with low errors( less than 15 minutes) , ( ii) being applied to small carriers i. e. , low cost companies characterized by a small amount of data. This work presents a Long Short-Term Memory( LSTM) approach to predicting flight delay, modeled as a sequence of flights across multiple airports for a particular aircraft throughout the day. We then suggest a transfer learning approach between heterogeneous feature spaces to train a prediction model for a given smaller airline using the data from another larger airline. Our approach is demonstrated to be robust and accurate for low cost airlines in Europe.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5013,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019541,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Ambiguity Aversion Model for Decision Making under Ambiguity,Wenjun Ma;Xudong Luo;Yuncheng Jiang,"In real life, decisions are often made under ambiguity, where it is difficult to estimate accurately the probability of each single possible consequence of a choice. However, this problem has not been solved well in existing work for the following two reasons. ( i) Some of them cannot cover the Ellsberg paradox and the Machina Paradox. Thus, the choices that they predict could be inconsistent with empirical observations. ( ii) Some of them rely on parameter tuning without offering explanations for the reasonability of setting such bounds of parameters. Thus, the prediction of such a model in new decision making problems is doubtful. To the end, this paper proposes a new decision making model based on D-S theory and the emotion of ambiguity aversion. Some insightful properties of our model and the validating on two famous paradoxes show that our model indeed is a better alternative for decision making under ambiguity.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10569,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10569,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Autonomous Override System to Prevent Airborne Loss of Control,Sweewarman Balachandran;Ella M. Atkins,"Loss of Control( LOC) is the most common precursor to aircraft accidents. This paper presents a Flight Safety Assessment and Management( FSAM) decision system to reduce in-flight LOC risk. FSAM nominally serves as a monitor to detect conditions that pose LOC risk, automatically activating the appropriate control authority if necessary to prevent LOC and restore a safe operational state. This paper contributes an efficient Markov Decision Process( MDP) formulation for FSAM. The state features capture risk associated with aircraft dynamics, configuration, health, pilot behavior and weather. The reward function trades cost of inaction against the cost of overriding the current control authority. A sparse sampling algorithm obtains a near-optimal solution for the MDP online. This approach enables the FSAM MDP to incorporate dynamically changing flight envelope and environment constraints into decision-making. Case studies based on realworld aviation incidents are presented.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19074,10.1609/aaai.v30i2.19074,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Emerging Application Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Efficient Framework for Dense Video Captioning,Maitreya Suin;A. N. Rajagopalan,"Dense video captioning is an extremely challenging task since an accurate and faithful description of events in a video requires a holistic knowledge of the video contents as well as contextual reasoning of individual events. Most existing approaches handle this problem by first proposing event boundaries from a video and then captioning on a subset of the proposals. Generation of dense temporal annotations and corresponding captions from long videos can be dramatically source consuming. In this paper, we focus on the task of generating a dense description of temporally untrimmed videos and aim to significantly reduce the computational cost by processing fewer frames while maintaining accuracy. Existing video captioning methods sample frames with a predefined frequency over the entire video or use all the frames. Instead, we propose a deep reinforcement-based approach which enables an agent to describe multiple events in a video by watching a portion of the frames. The agent needs to watch more frames when it is processing an informative part of the video, and skip frames when there is redundancy. The agent is trained using actor-critic algorithm, where the actor determines the frames to be watched from a video and the critic assesses the optimality of the decisions taken by the actor. Such an efficient frame selection simplifies the event proposal task considerably. This has the added effect of reducing the occurrence of unwanted proposals. The encoded state representation of the frame selection agent is further utilized for guiding event proposal and caption generation tasks. We also leverage the idea of knowledge distillation to improve the accuracy. We conduct extensive evaluations on ActivityNet captions dataset to validate our method.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6881,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6881,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Exercise in Tournament Design: When Some Matches Must Be Scheduled,Sushmita Gupta;Ramanujan Sridharan;Peter Strulo,"Single-elimination( SE) tournaments are a popular format used in competitive environments and decision making. Algorithms for SE tournament manipulation have been an active topic of research in recent years. In this paper, we initiate the algorithmic study of a novel variant of SE tournament manipulation that aims to model the fact that certain matchups are highly desired in a sporting context, incentivizing an organizer to manipulate the bracket to make such matchups take place. We obtain both hardness and tractability results. We show that while the problem of computing a bracket enforcing a given set of matches in an SE tournament is NP-hard, there are natural restrictions that lead to polynomial-time solvability. In particular, we show polynomial-time solvability if there is a linear ordering on the ability of players with only a constant number of exceptions where a player with lower ability beats a player with higher ability.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28833,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28833,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Experimental Study of Advice in Sequential Decision-Making Under Uncertainty,Florian Benavent;Bruno Zanuttini,"We consider sequential decision making problems under uncertainty, in which a user has a general idea of the task to achieve, and gives advice to an agent in charge of computing an optimal policy. Many different notions of advice have been proposed in somewhat different settings, especially in the field of inverse reinforcement learning and for resolution of Markov Decision Problems with Imprecise Rewards. Two key questions are whether the advice required by a specific method is natural for the user to give, and how much advice is needed for the agent to compute a good policy, as evaluated by the user. We give a unified view of a number of proposals made in the literature, and propose a new notion of advice, which corresponds to a user telling why she would take a given action in a given state. For all these notions, we discuss their naturalness for a user and the integration of advice. We then report on an experimental study of the amount of advice needed for the agent to compute a good policy. Our study shows in particular that continual interaction between the user and the agent is worthwhile, and sheds light on the pros and cons of each type of advice.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12118,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12118,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Improved Generic Bet-and-Run Strategy with Performance Prediction for Stochastic Local Search,Thomas Weise;Zijun Wu;Markus Wagner,"A commonly used strategy for improving optimization algorithms is to restart the algorithm when it is believed to be trapped in an inferior part of the search space. Building on the recent success of BET-AND-RUN approaches for restarted local search solvers, we introduce a more generic version that makes use of performance prediction. It is our goal to obtain the best possible results within a given time budget t using a given black-box optimization algorithm. If no prior knowledge about problem features and algorithm behavior is available, the question about how to use the time budget most efficiently arises. We first start k \uc0\u8805  1 independent runs of the algorithm during an initialization budget t1 < t, pause these runs, then apply a decision maker D to choose 1 \u8804  m < k runs from them( consuming t2 \u8805  0 time units in doing so) , and then continue these runs for the remaining t3 = t\u8722 t1\u8722 t2 time units. In previous BET-AND-RUN strategies, the decision maker D = currentBest would simply select the run with the best-so-far results at negligible time. We propose using more advanced methods to discriminate between \'93good\'94 and \'93bad\'94 sample runs with the goal of increasing the correlation of the chosen run with the a-posteriori best one. In over 157 million experiments, we test different approaches to predict which run may yield the best results if granted the remaining budget. We show( 1) that the currentBest method is indeed a very reliable and robust baseline approach, and( 2) that our approach can yield better results than the previous methods.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4082,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012395,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Integrative Framework for Artificial Intelligence Education,Pat Langley,"Modern introductory courses on AI do not train students to create intelligent systems or provide broad coverage of this complex field. In this paper, we identify problems with common approaches to teaching artificial intelligence and suggest alternative principles that courses should adopt instead. We illustrate these principles in a proposed course that teaches students not only about component methods, such as pattern matching and decision making, but also about their combination into higher-level abilities for reasoning, sequential control, plan generation, and integrated intelligent agents. We also present a curriculum that instantiates this organization, including sample programming exercises and a project that requires system integration. Participants also gain experience building knowledge-based agents that use their software to produce intelligent behavior.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5032,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019670,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Interactive Explanatory AI System for Industrial Quality Control,Dennis M\'fcller;Michael M\'e4rz;Stephan Scheele;Ute Schmid,"Machine learning based image classification algorithms, such as deep neural network approaches, will be increasingly employed in critical settings such as quality control in industry, where transparency and comprehensibility of decisions are crucial. Therefore, we aim to extend the defect detection task towards an interactive human-in-the-loop approach that allows us to integrate rich background knowledge and the inference of complex relationships going beyond traditional purely data-driven approaches. We propose an approach for an interactive support system for classifications in an industrial quality control setting that combines the advantages of both( explainable) knowledge-driven and data-driven machine learning methods, in particular inductive logic programming and convolutional neural networks, with human expertise and control. The resulting system can assist domain experts with decisions, provide transparent explanations for results, and integrate feedback from users; thus reducing workload for humans while both respecting their expertise and without removing their agency or accountability.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21530,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21530,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Interactive Regret-Based Genetic Algorithm for Solving Multi-Objective Combinatorial Optimization Problems,Nawal Benabbou;Cassandre Leroy;Thibaut Lust,"We propose a new approach consisting in combining genetic algorithms and regret-based incremental preference elicitation for solving multi-objective combinatorial optimization problems with unknown preferences. For the purpose of elicitation, we assume that the decision makers preferences can be represented by a parameterized scalarizing function but the parameters are initially not known. Instead, the parameter imprecision is progressively reduced by asking preference queries to the decision maker during the search to help identify the best solutions within a population. Our algorithm, called RIGA, can be applied to any multi-objective combinatorial optimization problem provided that the scalarizing function is linear in its parameters and that a( near-) optimal solution can be efficiently determined when preferences are known. Moreover, RIGA runs in polynomial time while asking no more than a polynomial number of queries. For the multi-objective traveling salesman problem, we provide numerical results showing its practical efficiency in terms of number of queries, computation time and gap to optimality.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5612,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5612,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Interpretable Generative Adversarial Approach to Classification of Latent Entity Relations in Unstructured Sentences,Shiou Tian Hsu;Changsung Moon;Paul Jones;Nagiza Samatova,"We propose a generative adversarial neural network model for relation classification that attempts to emulate the way in which human analysts might process sentences. Our approach provides two unique benefits over existing capabilities:( 1) we make predictions by finding and exploiting supportive rationales to improve interpretability( i. e. words or phrases extracted from a sentence that a person can reason upon) , and( 2) we allow predictions to be easily corrected by adjusting the rationales. Our model consists of three stages: Generator, Selector, and Encoder. The Generator identifies candidate text fragments; the Selector decides which fragments can be used as rationales depending on the goal; and finally, the Encoder performs relation reasoning on the rationales. While the Encoder is trained in a supervised manner to classify relations, the Generator and Selector are designed as unsupervised models to identify rationales without prior knowledge, although they can be semi-supervised through human annotations. We evaluate our model on data from SemEval 2010 that provides 19 relation-classes. Experiments demonstrate that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art models, and that our model is capable of extracting good rationales on its own as well as benefiting from labeled rationales if provided.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11972,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11972,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,An Online Learning Approach to Sequential User-Centric Selection Problems,Junpu Chen;Hong Xie,"This paper proposes a new variant of multi-play MAB model, to capture important factors of the sequential user-centric selection problem arising from mobile edge computing, ridesharing applications, etc. In the proposed model, each arm is associated with discrete units of resources, each play is associate with movement costs and multiple plays can pull the same arm simultaneously. To learn the optimal action profile( an action profile prescribes the arm that each play pulls) , there are two challenges:( 1) the number of action profiles is large, i. e. , M^K, where K and M denote the number of plays and arms respectively;( 2) feedbacks on action profiles are not available, but instead feedbacks on some model parameters can be observed. To address the first challenge, we formulate a completed weighted bipartite graph to capture key factors of the offline decision problem with given model parameters. We identify the correspondence between action profiles and a special class of matchings of the graph. We also identify a dominance structure of this class of matchings. This correspondence and dominance structure enable us to design an algorithm named OffOptActPrf to locate the optimal action efficiently. To address the second challenge, we design an OnLinActPrf algorithm. We design estimators for model parameters and use these estimators to design a Quasi-UCB index for each action profile. The OnLinActPrf uses OffOptActPrf as a subroutine to select the action profile with the largest Quasi-UCB index. We conduct extensive experiments to validate the efficiency of OnLinActPrf.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20572,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20572,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Analytically Tractable Models for Decision Making under Present Bias,Yasunori Akagi;Naoki Marumo;Takeshi Kurashima,"Time-inconsistency is a characteristic of human behavior in which people plan for long-term benefits but take actions that differ from the plan due to conflicts with short-term benefits. Such time-inconsistent behavior is believed to be caused by present bias, a tendency to overestimate immediate rewards and underestimate future rewards. It is essential in behavioral economics to investigate the relationship between present bias and time-inconsistency. In this paper, we propose a model for analyzing agent behavior with present bias in tasks to make progress toward a goal over a specific period. Unlike previous models, the state sequence of the agent can be described analytically in our model. Based on this property, we analyze three crucial problems related to agents under present bias: task abandonment, optimal goal setting, and optimal reward scheduling. Extensive analysis reveals how present bias affects the condition under which task abandonment occurs and optimal intervention strategies. Our findings are meaningful for preventing task abandonment and intervening through incentives in the real world.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28798,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28798,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Anytime Anyspace AND/OR Best-First Search for Bounding Marginal MAP,Qi Lou;Rina Dechter;Alexander Ihler,"Marginal MAP is a key task in Bayesian inference and decision-making. It is known to be very difficult in general, particularly because the evaluation of each MAP assignment requires solving an internal summation problem. In this paper, we propose a best-first search algorithm that provides anytime upper bounds for marginal MAP in graphical models. It folds the computation of external maximization and internal summation into an AND/OR tree search framework, and solves them simultaneously using a unified best-first search algorithm. The algorithm avoids some unnecessary computation of summation sub-problems associated with MAP assignments, and thus yields significant time savings. Furthermore, our algorithm is able to operate within limited memory. Empirical evaluation on three challenging benchmarks demonstrates that our unified best-first search algorithm using pre-compiled variational heuristics often provides tighter anytime upper bounds compared to those state-of-the-art baselines.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12123,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12123,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Apparently Irrational Choice as Optimal Sequential Decision Making,Haiyang Chen;Hyung Jin Chang;Andrew Howes,"In this paper, we propose a normative approach to modeling apparently human irrational decision making( cognitive biases) that makes use of inherently rational computational mechanisms. We view preferential choice tasks as sequential decision making problems and formulate them as Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes( POMDPs). The resulting sequential decision model learns what information to gather about which options, whether to calculate option values or make comparisons between options and when to make a choice. We apply the model to choice problems where context is known to influence human choice, an effect that has been taken as evidence that human cognition is irrational. Our results show that the new model approximates a bounded optimal cognitive policy and makes quantitative predictions that correspond well to evidence about human choice. Furthermore, the model uses context to help infer which option has a maximum expected value while taking into account computational cost and cognitive limits. In addition, it predicts when, and explains why, people stop evidence accumulation and make a decision. We argue that the model provides evidence that apparent human irrationalities are emergent consequences of processes that prefer higher value( rational) policies.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16161,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16161,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Cognitive Modeling and Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Applied Machine Learning for Games: A Graduate School Course,Yilei Zeng;Aayush Shah;Jameson Thai;Michael Zyda,"The game industry is moving into an era where old-style game engines are being replaced by re-engineered systems with embedded machine learning technologies for the operation, analysis and understanding of game play. In this paper, we describe our machine learning course designed for graduate students interested in applying recent advances of deep learning and reinforcement learning towards gaming. This course serves as a bridge to foster interdisciplinary collaboration among graduate schools and does not require prior experience designing or building games. Graduate students enrolled in this course apply different fields of machine learning techniques such as computer vision, natural language processing, computer graphics, human computer interaction, robotics and data analysis to solve open challenges in gaming. Student projects cover use-cases such as training AI-bots in gaming benchmark environments and competitions, understanding human decision patterns in gaming, and creating intelligent non-playable characters or environments to foster engaging gameplay. Projects demos can help students open doors for an industry career, aim for publications, or lay the foundations of a future product. Our students gained hands-on experience in applying state of the art machine learning techniques to solve real-life problems in gaming.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17849,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17849,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Apprenticeship Learning via Frank-Wolfe,Tom Zahavy;Alon Cohen;Haim Kaplan;Yishay Mansour,"We consider the applications of the Frank-Wolfe( FW) algorithm for Apprenticeship Learning( AL). In this setting, we are given a Markov Decision Process( MDP) without an explicit reward function. Instead, we observe an expert that acts according to some policy, and the goal is to find a policy whose feature expectations are closest to those of the expert policy. We formulate this problem as finding the projection of the feature expectations of the expert on the feature expectations polytope \'96 the convex hull of the feature expectations of all the deterministic policies in the MDP. We show that this formulation is equivalent to the AL objective and that solving this problem using the FW algorithm is equivalent well-known Projection method of Abbeel and Ng( 2004). This insight allows us to analyze AL with tools from convex optimization literature and derive tighter convergence bounds on AL. Specifically, we show that a variation of the FW method that is based on taking \'93away steps\'94 achieves a linear rate of convergence when applied to AL and that a stochastic version of the FW algorithm can be used to avoid precise estimation of feature expectations. We also experimentally show that this version outperforms the FW baseline. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that shows linear convergence rates for AL.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6150,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6150,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Approval-Based Committee Voting in Practice: A Case Study of( over-) Representation in the Polkadot Blockchain,Niclas Boehmer;Markus Brill;Alfonso Cevallos;Jonas Gehrlein;Luis S\'e1nchez-Fern\'e1ndez;Ulrike Schmidt-Kraepelin,"We provide the first large-scale data collection of real-world approval-based committee elections. These elections have been conducted on the Polkadot blockchain as part of their Nominated Proof-of-Stake mechanism and contain around one thousand candidates and tens of thousands of( weighted) voters each. We conduct an in-depth study of application-relevant questions, including a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the outcomes returned by different voting rules. Besides considering proportionality measures that are standard in the multiwinner voting literature, we pay particular attention to less-studied measures of overrepresentation, as these are closely related to the security of the Polkadot network. We also analyze how different design decisions such as the committee size affect the examined measures.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28807,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28807,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Arbitrariness and Social Prediction: The Confounding Role of Variance in Fair Classification,A. Feder Cooper;Katherine Lee;Madiha Zahrah Choksi;Solon Barocas;Christopher De Sa;James Grimmelmann;Jon Kleinberg;Siddhartha Sen;Baobao Zhang,"Variance in predictions across different trained models is a significant, under-explored source of error in fair binary classification. In practice, the variance on some data examples is so large that decisions can be effectively arbitrary. To investigate this problem, we take an experimental approach and make four overarching contributions. We: 1) Define a metric called self-consistency, derived from variance, which we use as a proxy for measuring and reducing arbitrariness; 2) Develop an ensembling algorithm that abstains from classification when a prediction would be arbitrary; 3) Conduct the largest to-date empirical study of the role of variance( vis-a-vis self-consistency and arbitrariness) in fair binary classification; and, 4) Release a toolkit that makes the US Home Mortgage Disclosure Act( HMDA) datasets easily usable for future research. Altogether, our experiments reveal shocking insights about the reliability of conclusions on benchmark datasets. Most fair binary classification benchmarks are close-to-fair when taking into account the amount of arbitrariness present in predictions -- before we even try to apply any fairness interventions. This finding calls into question the practical utility of common algorithmic fairness methods, and in turn suggests that we should reconsider how we choose to measure fairness in binary classification.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30203,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30203,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Argument Mining Driven Analysis of Peer-Reviews,Michael Fromm;Evgeniy Faerman;Max Berrendorf;Siddharth Bhargava;Ruoxia Qi;Yao Zhang;Lukas Dennert;Sophia Selle;Yang Mao;Thomas Seidl,"Peer reviewing is a central process in modern research and essential for ensuring high quality and reliability of published work. At the same time, it is a time-consuming process and increasing interest in emerging fields often results in a high review workload, especially for senior researchers in this area. How to cope with this problem is an open question and it is vividly discussed across all major conferences. In this work, we propose an Argument Mining based approach for the assistance of editors, meta-reviewers, and reviewers. We demonstrate that the decision process in the field of scientific publications is driven by arguments and automatic argument identification is helpful in various use-cases. One of our findings is that arguments used in the peer-review process differ from arguments in other domains making the transfer of pre-trained models difficult. Therefore, we provide the community with a new dataset of peer-reviews from different computer science conferences with annotated arguments. In our extensive empirical evaluation, we show that Argument Mining can be used to efficiently extract the most relevant parts from reviews, which are paramount for the publication decision. Also, the process remains interpretable, since the extracted arguments can be highlighted in a review without detaching them from their context.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16607,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16607,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track Focus Area on AI for Conference Organization and Delivery,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Argumentation for Explainable Scheduling,Kristijonas \uc0\u268 yras;Dimitrios Letsios;Ruth Misener;Francesca Toni,"Mathematical optimization offers highly-effective tools for finding solutions for problems with well-defined goals, notably scheduling. However, optimization solvers are often unexplainable black boxes whose solutions are inaccessible to users and which users cannot interact with. We define a novel paradigm using argumentation to empower the interaction between optimization solvers and users, supported by tractable explanations which certify or refute solutions. A solution can be from a solver or of interest to a user( in the context of \'91what-if\'92 scenarios). Specifically, we define argumentative and natural language explanations for why a schedule is( not) feasible, ( not) efficient or( not) satisfying fixed user decisions, based on models of the fundamental makespan scheduling problem in terms of abstract argumentation frameworks( AFs). We define three types of AFs, whose stable extensions are in one-to-one correspondence with schedules that are feasible, efficient and satisfying fixed decisions, respectively. We extract the argumentative explanations from these AFs and the natural language explanations from the argumentative ones.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4126,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012752,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Aspect-Aware Multimodal Summarization for Chinese E-Commerce Products,Haoran Li;Peng Yuan;Song Xu;Youzheng Wu;Xiaodong He;Bowen Zhou,"We present an abstractive summarization system that produces summary for Chinese e-commerce products. This task is more challenging than general text summarization. First, the appearance of a product typically plays a significant role in customers decisions to buy the product or not, which requires that the summarization model effectively use the visual information of the product. Furthermore, different products have remarkable features in various aspects, such as \'93energy efficiency\'94 and \'93large capacity\'94 for refrigerators. Meanwhile, different customers may care about different aspects. Thus, the summarizer needs to capture the most attractive aspects of a product that resonate with potential purchasers. We propose an aspect-aware multimodal summarization model that can effectively incorporate the visual information and also determine the most salient aspects of a product. We construct a large-scale Chinese e-commerce product summarization dataset that contains approximately 1. 4 million manually created product summaries that are paired with detailed product information, including an image, a title, and other textual descriptions for each product. The experimental results on this dataset demonstrate that our models significantly outperform the comparative methods in terms of both the ROUGE score and manual evaluations.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6332,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6332,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Assignment and Pricing in Roommate Market,Pak Chan;Xin Huang;Zhengyang Liu;Chihao Zhang;Shengyu Zhang,"We introduce a roommate market model, in which 2n people need to be assigned to n rooms, with two people in each room. Each person has a valuation to each room, as well as a valuation to each of other people as a roommate. Each room has a rent shared by the two people living in the room, and we need to decide who live together in which room and how much each should pay. Various solution concepts on stability and envy-freeness are proposed, with their existence studied and the computational complexity of the corresponding search problems analyzed. In particular, we show that maximizing the social welfare is NP-hard, and we give a polynomial time algorithm that achieves at least 2/3 of the maximum social welfare. Finally, we demonstrate a pricing scheme that can achieve envy-freeness for each room.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10019,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10019,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Atari-HEAD: Atari Human Eye-Tracking and Demonstration Dataset,Ruohan Zhang;Calen Walshe;Zhuode Liu;Lin Guan;Karl Muller;Jake Whritner;Luxin Zhang;Mary Hayhoe;Dana Ballard,"Large-scale public datasets have been shown to benefit research in multiple areas of modern artificial intelligence. For decision-making research that requires human data, high-quality datasets serve as important benchmarks to facilitate the development of new methods by providing a common reproducible standard. Many human decision-making tasks require visual attention to obtain high levels of performance. Therefore, measuring eye movements can provide a rich source of information about the strategies that humans use to solve decision-making tasks. Here, we provide a large-scale, high-quality dataset of human actions with simultaneously recorded eye movements while humans play Atari video games. The dataset consists of 117 hours of gameplay data from a diverse set of 20 games, with 8 million action demonstrations and 328 million gaze samples. We introduce a novel form of gameplay, in which the human plays in a semi-frame-by-frame manner. This leads to near-optimal game decisions and game scores that are comparable or better than known human records. We demonstrate the usefulness of the dataset through two simple applications: predicting human gaze and imitating human demonstrated actions. The quality of the data leads to promising results in both tasks. Moreover, using a learned human gaze model to inform imitation learning leads to an 115% increase in game performance. We interpret these results as highlighting the importance of incorporating human visual attention in models of decision making and demonstrating the value of the current dataset to the research community. We hope that the scale and quality of this dataset can provide more opportunities to researchers in the areas of visual attention, imitation learning, and reinforcement learning.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6161,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6161,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Attention Guided CAM: Visual Explanations of Vision Transformer Guided by Self-Attention,Saebom Leem;Hyunseok Seo,"Vision Transformer( ViT) is one of the most widely used models in the computer vision field with its great performance on various tasks. In order to fully utilize the ViT-based architecture in various applications, proper visualization methods with a decent localization performance are necessary, but these methods employed in CNN-based models are still not available in ViT due to its unique structure. In this work, we propose an attention-guided visualization method applied to ViT that provides a high-level semantic explanation for its decision. Our method selectively aggregates the gradients directly propagated from the classification output to each self-attention, collecting the contribution of image features extracted from each location of the input image. These gradients are additionally guided by the normalized self-attention scores, which are the pairwise patch correlation scores. They are used to supplement the gradients on the patch-level context information efficiently detected by the self-attention mechanism. This approach of our method provides elaborate high-level semantic explanations with great localization performance only with the class labels. As a result, our method outperforms the previous leading explainability methods of ViT in the weakly-supervised localization task and presents great capability in capturing the full instances of the target class object. Meanwhile, our method provides a visualization that faithfully explains the model, which is demonstrated in the perturbation comparison test.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28077,10.1609/aaai.v38i4.28077,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Attention-Aware Sampling via Deep Reinforcement Learning for Action Recognition,Wenkai Dong;Zhaoxiang Zhang;Tieniu Tan,"Deep learning based methods have achieved remarkable progress in action recognition. Existing works mainly focus on designing novel deep architectures to achieve video representations learning for action recognition. Most methods treat sampled frames equally and average all the frame-level predictions at the testing stage. However, within a video, discriminative actions may occur sparsely in a few frames and most other frames are irrelevant to the ground truth and may even lead to a wrong prediction. As a result, we think that the strategy of selecting relevant frames would be a further important key to enhance the existing deep learning based action recognition. In this paper, we propose an attentionaware sampling method for action recognition, which aims to discard the irrelevant and misleading frames and preserve the most discriminative frames. We formulate the process of mining key frames from videos as a Markov decision process and train the attention agent through deep reinforcement learning without extra labels. The agent takes features and predictions from the baseline model as input and generates importance scores for all frames. Moreover, our approach is extensible, which can be applied to different existing deep learning based action recognition models. We achieve very competitive action recognition performance on two widely used action recognition datasets.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4836,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33018247,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Attention-Based Models for Snow-Water Equivalent Prediction,Krishu K Thapa;Bhupinderjeet Singh;Supriya Savalkar;Alan Fern;Kirti Rajagopalan;Ananth Kalyanaraman,"Snow Water-Equivalent( SWE) \'97the amount of water available if snowpack is melted\'97is a key decision variable used by water management agencies to make irrigation, flood control, power generation, and drought management decisions. SWE values vary spatiotemporally\'97affected by weather, topography, and other environmental factors. While daily SWE can be measured by Snow Telemetry( SNOTEL) stations with requisite instrumentation, such stations are spatially sparse requiring interpolation techniques to create spatiotemporal complete data. While recent efforts have explored machine learning( ML) for SWE prediction, a number of recent ML advances have yet to be considered. The main contribution of this paper is to explore one such ML advance, attention mechanisms, for SWE prediction. Our hypothesis is that attention has a unique ability to capture and exploit correlations that may exist across locations or the temporal spectrum( or both). We present a generic attention-based modeling framework for SWE prediction and adapt it to capture spatial attention and temporal attention. Our experimental results on 323 SNOTEL stations in the Western U. S. demonstrate that our attention-based models outperform other machine-learning approaches. We also provide key results highlighting the differences between spatial and temporal attention in this context and a roadmap toward deployment for generating spatially-complete SWE maps.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30337,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30337,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Attentive Experience Replay,Peiquan Sun;Wengang Zhou;Houqiang Li,"Experience replay( ER) has become an important component of deep reinforcement learning( RL) algorithms. ER enables RL algorithms to reuse past experiences for the update of current policy. By reusing a previous state for training, the RL agent would learn more accurate value estimation and better decision on that state. However, as the policy is continually updated, some states in past experiences become rarely visited, and optimization over these states might not improve the overall performance of current policy. To tackle this issue, we propose a new replay strategy to prioritize the transitions that contain states frequently visited by current policy. We introduce Attentive Experience Replay( AER) , a novel experience replay algorithm that samples transitions according to the similarities between their states and the agents state. We couple AER with different off-policy algorithms and demonstrate that AER makes consistent improvements on the suite of OpenAI gym tasks.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6049,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6049,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AUC Optimization with a Reject Option,Song-Qing Shen;Bin-Bin Yang;Wei Gao,"Making an erroneous decision may cause serious results in diverse mission-critical tasks such as medical diagnosis and bioinformatics. Previous work focuses on classification with a reject option, i. e. , abstain rather than classify an instance of low confidence. Most mission-critical tasks are always accompanied with class imbalance and cost sensitivity, where AUC has been shown a preferable measure than accuracy in classification. In this work, we propose the framework of AUC optimization with a reject option, and the basic idea is to withhold the decision of ranking a pair of positive and negative instances with a lower cost, rather than mis-ranking. We obtain the Bayes optimal solution for ranking, and learn the reject function and score function for ranking, simultaneously. An online algorithm has been developed for AUC optimization with a reject option, by considering the convex relaxation and plug-in rule. We verify, both theoretically and empirically, the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6023,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6023,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Augmented Commonsense Knowledge for Remote Object Grounding,Bahram Mohammadi;Yicong Hong;Yuankai Qi;Qi Wu;Shirui Pan;Javen Qinfeng Shi,"The vision-and-language navigation( VLN) task necessitates an agent to perceive the surroundings, follow natural language instructions, and act in photo-realistic unseen environments. Most of the existing methods employ the entire image or object features to represent navigable viewpoints. However, these representations are insufficient for proper action prediction, especially for the REVERIE task, which uses concise high-level instructions, such as \'93Bring me the blue cushion in the master bedroom\'94. To address enhancing representation, we propose an augmented commonsense knowledge model( ACK) to leverage commonsense information as a spatio-temporal knowledge graph for improving agent navigation. Specifically, the proposed approach involves constructing a knowledge base by retrieving commonsense information from ConceptNet, followed by a refinement module to remove noisy and irrelevant knowledge. We further present ACK which consists of knowledge graph-aware cross-modal and concept aggregation modules to enhance visual representation and visual-textual data alignment by integrating visible objects, commonsense knowledge, and concept history, which includes object and knowledge temporal information. Moreover, we add a new pipeline for the commonsense-based decision-making process which leads to more accurate local action prediction. Experimental results demonstrate our proposed model noticeably outperforms the baseline and archives the state-of-the-art on the REVERIE benchmark. The source code is available at https://github. com/Bahram-Mohammadi/ACK.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28223,10.1609/aaai.v38i5.28223,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Augmenting Markov Decision Processes with Advising,Lo\'efs Vanh\'e9e;Laurent Jeanpierre;Abdel-Illah Mouaddib,"This paper introduces Advice-MDPs, an expansion of Markov Decision Processes for generating policies that take into consideration advising on the desirability, undesirability, and prohibition of certain states and actions. AdviceMDPs enable the design of designing semi-autonomous systems( systems that require operator support for at least handling certain situations) that can efficiently handle unexpected complex environments. Operators, through advising, can augment the planning model for covering unexpected real-world irregularities. This advising can swiftly augment the degree of autonomy of the system, so it can work without subsequent human intervention. This paper details the Advice-MDP formalism, a fast AdviceMDP resolution algorithm, and its applicability for real-world tasks, via the design of a professional-class semi-autonomous robot system ready to be deployed in a wide range of unexpected environments and capable of efficiently integrating operator advising.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4099,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012531,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Auto-GAN: Self-Supervised Collaborative Learning for Medical Image Synthesis,Bing Cao;Han Zhang;Nannan Wang;Xinbo Gao;Dinggang Shen,"In various clinical scenarios, medical image is crucial in disease diagnosis and treatment. Different modalities of medical images provide complementary information and jointly helps doctors to make accurate clinical decision. However, due to clinical and practical restrictions, certain imaging modalities may be unavailable nor complete. To impute missing data with adequate clinical accuracy, here we propose a framework called self-supervised collaborative learning to synthesize missing modality for medical images. The proposed method comprehensively utilize all available information correlated to the target modality from multi-source-modality images to generate any missing modality in a single model. Different from the existing methods, we introduce an auto-encoder network as a novel, self-supervised constraint, which provides target-modality-specific information to guide generator training. In addition, we design a modality mask vector as the target modality label. With experiments on multiple medical image databases, we demonstrate a great generalization ability as well as specialty of our method compared with other state-of-the-arts.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6619,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6619,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AutoCost: Evolving Intrinsic Cost for Zero-Violation Reinforcement Learning,Tairan He;Weiye Zhao;Changliu Liu,"Safety is a critical hurdle that limits the application of deep reinforcement learning to real-world control tasks. To this end, constrained reinforcement learning leverages cost functions to improve safety in constrained Markov decision process. However, constrained methods fail to achieve zero violation even when the cost limit is zero. This paper analyzes the reason for such failure, which suggests that a proper cost function plays an important role in constrained RL. Inspired by the analysis, we propose AutoCost, a simple yet effective framework that automatically searches for cost functions that help constrained RL to achieve zero-violation performance. We validate the proposed method and the searched cost function on the safety benchmark Safety Gym. We compare the performance of augmented agents that use our cost function to provide additive intrinsic costs to a Lagrangian-based policy learner and a constrained-optimization policy learner with baseline agents that use the same policy learners but with only extrinsic costs. Results show that the converged policies with intrinsic costs in all environments achieve zero constraint violation and comparable performance with baselines.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26734,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26734,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AutoEncoder by Forest,Ji Feng;Zhi-Hua Zhou,"Auto-encoding is an important task which is typically realized by deep neural networks( DNNs) such as convolutional neural networks( CNN). In this paper, we propose EncoderForest( abbrv. eForest) , the first tree ensemble based auto-encoder. We present a procedure for enabling forests to do backward reconstruction by utilizing the Maximal-Compatible Rule( MCR) defined by the decision paths of the trees, and demonstrate its usage in both supervised and unsupervised setting. Experiments show that, compared with DNN based auto-encoders, eForest is able to obtain lower reconstruction error with fast training speed, while the model itself is reusable and damage-tolerable.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11732,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11732,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Automated Design of Affine Maximizer Mechanisms in Dynamic Settings,Michael Curry;Vinzenz Thoma;Darshan Chakrabarti;Stephen McAleer;Christian Kroer;Tuomas Sandholm;Niao He;Sven Seuken,"Dynamic mechanism design is a challenging extension to ordinary mechanism design in which the mechanism designer must make a sequence of decisions over time in the face of possibly untruthful reports of participating agents. Optimizing dynamic mechanisms for welfare is relatively well understood. However, there has been less work on optimizing for other goals( e. g. , revenue) , and without restrictive assumptions on valuations, it is remarkably challenging to characterize good mechanisms. Instead, we turn to automated mechanism design to find mechanisms with good performance in specific problem instances. We extend the class of affine maximizer mechanisms to MDPs where agents may untruthfully report their rewards. This extension results in a challenging bilevel optimization problem in which the upper problem involves choosing optimal mechanism parameters, and the lower problem involves solving the resulting MDP. Our approach can find truthful dynamic mechanisms that achieve strong performance on goals other than welfare, and can be applied to essentially any problem setting---without restrictions on valuations---for which RL can learn optimal policies.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28819,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28819,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Automated Dispatch of Helpdesk Email Tickets: Pushing the Limits with AI,Atri Mandal;Nikhil Malhotra;Shivali Agarwal;Anupama Ray;Giriprasad Sridhara,"Ticket assignment/dispatch is a crucial part of service delivery business with lot of scope for automation and optimization. In this paper, we present an end-to-end automated helpdesk email ticket assignment system, which is also offered as a service. The objective of the system is to determine the nature of the problem mentioned in an incoming email ticket and then automatically dispatch it to an appropriate resolver group( or team) for resolution. The proposed system uses an ensemble classifier augmented with a configurable rule engine. While design of a classifier that is accurate is one of the main challenges, we also need to address the need of designing a system that is robust and adaptive to changing business needs. We discuss some of the main design challenges associated with email ticket assignment automation and how we solve them. The design decisions for our system are driven by high accuracy, coverage, business continuity, scalability and optimal usage of computational resources. Our system has been deployed in production of three major service providers and currently assigning over 90, 000 emails per month, on an average, with an accuracy close to 90% and covering at least 90% of email tickets. This translates to achieving human-level accuracy and results in a net saving of more than 50000 man-hours of effort per annum. Till date, our deployed system has already served more than 700, 000 tickets in production.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4986,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019381,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Deployed Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Automated Lay Language Summarization of Biomedical Scientific Reviews,Yue Guo;Wei Qiu;Yizhong Wang;Trevor Cohen,"Health literacy has emerged as a crucial factor in making appropriate health decisions and ensuring treatment outcomes. However, medical jargon and the complex structure of professional language in this domain make health information especially hard to interpret. Thus, there is an urgent unmet need for automated methods to enhance the accessibility of the biomedical literature to the general population. This problem can be framed as a type of translation problem between the language of healthcare professionals, and that of the general public. In this paper, we introduce the novel task of automated generation of lay language summaries of biomedical scientific reviews, and construct a dataset to support the development and evaluation of automated methods through which to enhance the accessibility of the biomedical literature. We conduct analyses of the various challenges in performing this task, including not only summarization of the key points but also explanation of background knowledge and simplification of professional language. We experiment with state-of-the-art summarization models as well as several data augmentation techniques, and evaluate their performance using both automated metrics and human assessment. Results indicate that automatically generated summaries produced using contemporary neural architectures can achieve promising quality and readability as compared with reference summaries developed for the lay public by experts( best ROUGE-L of 50. 24 and Flesch-Kincaid readability score of 13. 30). We also discuss the limitations of the current effort, providing insights and directions for future work.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16089,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16089,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Back to the Future \'96 Temporal Adaptation of Text Representations,Johannes Bjerva;Wouter Kouw;Isabelle Augenstein,"Language evolves over time in many ways relevant to natural language processing tasks. For example, recent occurrences of tokens BERT and ELMO in publications refer to neural network architectures rather than persons. This type of temporal signal is typically overlooked, but is important if one aims to deploy a machine learning model over an extended period of time. In particular, language evolution causes data drift between time-steps in sequential decision-making tasks. Examples of such tasks include prediction of paper acceptance for yearly conferences( regular intervals) or author stance prediction for rumours on Twitter( irregular intervals). Inspired by successes in computer vision, we tackle data drift by sequentially aligning learned representations. We evaluate on three challenging tasks varying in terms of time-scales, linguistic units, and domains. These tasks show our method outperforming several strong baselines, including using all available data. We argue that, due to its low computational expense, sequential alignment is a practical solution to dealing with language evolution.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6240,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6240,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Backdoor Attacks on the DNN Interpretation System,Shihong Fang;Anna Choromanska,"Interpretability is crucial to understand the inner workings of deep neural networks( DNNs). Many interpretation methods help to understand the decision-making of DNNs by generating saliency maps that highlight parts of the input image that contribute the most to the prediction made by the DNN. In this paper we design a backdoor attack that alters the saliency map produced by the network for an input image with a specific trigger pattern while not losing the prediction performance significantly. The saliency maps are incorporated in the penalty term of the objective function that is used to train a deep model and its influence on model training is conditioned upon the presence of a trigger. We design two types of attacks: a targeted attack that enforces a specific modification of the saliency map and a non-targeted attack when the importance scores of the top pixels from the original saliency map are significantly reduced. We perform empirical evaluations of the proposed backdoor attacks on gradient-based interpretation methods, Grad-CAM and SimpleGrad, and a gradient-free scheme, VisualBackProp, for a variety of deep learning architectures. We show that our attacks constitute a serious security threat to the reliability of the interpretation methods when deploying models developed by untrusted sources. We furthermore show that existing backdoor defense mechanisms are ineffective in detecting our attacks. Finally, we demonstrate that the proposed methodology can be used in an inverted setting, where the correct saliency map can be obtained only in the presence of a trigger( key) , effectively making the interpretation system available only to selected users.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19935,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19935,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Backpropagation Through Agents,Zhiyuan Li;Wenshuai Zhao;Lijun Wu;Joni Pajarinen,"A fundamental challenge in multi-agent reinforcement learning( MARL) is to learn the joint policy in an extremely large search space, which grows exponentially with the number of agents. Moreover, fully decentralized policy factorization significantly restricts the search space, which may lead to sub-optimal policies. In contrast, the auto-regressive joint policy can represent a much richer class of joint policies by factorizing the joint policy into the product of a series of conditional individual policies. While such factorization introduces the action dependency among agents explicitly in sequential execution, it does not take full advantage of the dependency during learning. In particular, the subsequent agents do not give the preceding agents feedback about their decisions. In this paper, we propose a new framework Back-Propagation Through Agents( BPTA) that directly accounts for both agents own policy updates and the learning of their dependent counterparts. This is achieved by propagating the feedback through action chains. With the proposed framework, our Bidirectional Proximal Policy Optimisation( BPPO) outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. Extensive experiments on matrix games, StarCraftII v2, Multi-agent MuJoCo, and Google Research Football demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29277,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29277,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bagging Ensembles for the Diagnosis and Prognostication of Alzheimers Disease,Peng Dai;Femida Gwadry-Sridhar;Michael Bauer;Michael Borrie,"Alzheimers disease( AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease, which involves the degeneration of various brain functions, resulting in memory loss, cognitive disorder and death. Large amounts of multivariate heterogeneous medical test data are available for the analysis of brain deterioration. How to measure the deterioration remains a challenging problem. In this study, we first investigate how different regions of the human brain change as the patient develops AD. Correlation analysis and feature ranking are performed based on the feature vectors from different stages of the pathologic process in Alzheimer disease. Then, an automatic diagnosis system is presented, which is based on a hybrid manifold learning for feature embedding and the bootstrap aggregating( Bagging) algorithm for classification. We investigate two different tasks, i. e. diagnosis and progression prediction. Extensive comparison is made against Support Vector Machines( SVM) , Random Forest( RF) , Decision Tree( DT) and Random Subspace( RS) methods. Experimental results show that our proposed algorithm yields superior results when compared to the other methods, suggesting promising robustness for possible clinical applications.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9915,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9915,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track: Integrated AI Capabilities,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Balancing Quality and Human Involvement: An Effective Approach to Interactive Neural Machine Translation,Tianxiang Zhao;Lemao Liu;Guoping Huang;Huayang Li;Yingling Liu;Liu GuiQuan;Shuming Shi,"Conventional interactive machine translation typically requires a human translator to validate every generated target word, even though most of them are correct in the advanced neural machine translation( NMT) scenario. Previous studies have exploited confidence approaches to address the intensive human involvement issue, which request human guidance only for a few number of words with low confidences. However, such approaches do not take the history of human involvement into account, and optimize the models only for the translation quality while ignoring the cost of human involvement. In response to these pitfalls, we propose a novel interactive NMT model, which explicitly accounts the history of human involvements and particularly is optimized towards two objectives corresponding to the translation quality and the cost of human involvement, respectively. Specifically, the model jointly predicts a target word and a decision on whether to request human guidance, which is based on both the partial translation and the history of human involvements. Since there is no explicit signals on the decisions of requesting human guidance in the bilingual corpus, we optimize the model with the reinforcement learning technique which enables our model to accurately predict when to request human guidance. Simulated and real experiments show that the proposed model can achieve higher translation quality with similar or less human involvement over the confidence-based baseline.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6514,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6514,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Balancing Relevance and Diversity in Online Bipartite Matching via Submodularity,John P. Dickerson;Karthik Abinav Sankararaman;Aravind Srinivasan;Pan Xu,"In bipartite matching problems, vertices on one side of a bipartite graph are paired with those on the other. In its online variant, one side of the graph is available offline, while the vertices on the other side arrive online. When a vertex arrives, an irrevocable and immediate decision should be made by the algorithm; either match it to an available vertex or drop it. Examples of such problems include matching workers to firms, advertisers to keywords, organs to patients, and so on. Much of the literature focuses on maximizing the total relevance\'97modeled via total weight\'97of the matching. However, in many real-world problems, it is also important to consider contributions of diversity: hiring a diverse pool of candidates, displaying a relevant but diverse set of ads, and so on. In this paper, we propose the Online Submodular Bipartite Matching( OSBM) problem, where the goal is to maximize a submodular function f over the set of matched edges. This objective is general enough to capture the notion of both diversity( e. g. , a weighted coverage function) and relevance( e. g. , the traditional linear function) \'97as well as many other natural objective functions occurring in practice( e. g. , limited total budget in advertising settings). We propose novel algorithms that have provable guarantees and are essentially optimal when restricted to various special cases. We also run experiments on real-world and synthetic datasets to validate our algorithms.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4013,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011877,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bandit Linear Optimization for Sequential Decision Making and Extensive-Form Games,Gabriele Farina;Robin Schmucker;Tuomas Sandholm,"Tree-form sequential decision making( TFSDM) extends classical one-shot decision making by modeling tree-form interactions between an agent and a potentially adversarial environment. It captures the online decision-making problems that each player faces in an extensive-form game, as well as Markov decision processes and partially-observable Markov decision processes where the agent conditions on observed history. Over the past decade, there has been considerable effort into designing online optimization methods for TFSDM. Virtually all of that work has been in the full-feedback setting, where the agent has access to counterfactuals, that is, information on what would have happened had the agent chosen a different action at any decision node. Little is known about the bandit setting, where that assumption is reversed( no counterfactual information is available) , despite this latter setting being well understood for almost 20 years in one-shot decision making. In this paper, we give the first algorithm for the bandit linear optimization problem for TFSDM that offers both( i) linear-time iterations( in the size of the decision tree) and( ii) O( sqrt( T) ) cumulative regret in expectation compared to any fixed strategy, at all times T. This is made possible by new results that we derive, which may have independent uses as well: 1) geometry of the dilated entropy regularizer, 2) autocorrelation matrix of the natural sampling scheme for sequence-form strategies, 3) construction of an unbiased estimator for linear losses for sequence-form strategies, and 4) a refined regret analysis for mirror descent when using the dilated entropy regularizer.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16677,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16677,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Basing Decisions on Sentences in Decision Diagrams,Yexiang Xue;Arthur Choi;Adnan Darwiche,"The Sentential Decision Diagram( SDD) is a recently proposed representation of Boolean functions, containing Ordered Binary Decision Diagrams( OBDDs) as a distinguished subclass. While OBDDs are characterized by total variable orders, SDDs are characterized by dissections of variable orders, known as vtrees. Despite this generality, SDDs retain a number of properties, such as canonicity and a polytime apply operator, that have been critical to the practical success of OBDDs. Moreover, upper bounds on the size of SDDs were also given, which are tighter than comparable upper bounds on the size of OBDDs. In this paper, we analyze more closely some of the theoretical properties of SDDs and their size. In particular, we consider the impact of basing decisions on sentences( using dissections as in SDDs) , in comparison to basing decisions on variables( using total variable orders as in OBDDs). Here, we identify a class of Boolean functions where basing decisions on sentences using dissections of a variable order can lead to exponentially more compact SDDs, compared to OBDDs based on the same variable order. Moreover, we identify a fundamental property of the decompositions that underlie SDDs and use it to show how certain changes to a vtree can also lead to exponential differences in the size of an SDD.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8221,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8221,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,BAT: Behavior-Aware Human-Like Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Driving,Haicheng Liao;Zhenning Li;Huanming Shen;Wenxuan Zeng;Dongping Liao;Guofa Li;Chengzhong Xu,"The ability to accurately predict the trajectory of surrounding vehicles is a critical hurdle to overcome on the journey to fully autonomous vehicles. To address this challenge, we pioneer a novel behavior-aware trajectory prediction model( BAT) that incorporates insights and findings from traffic psychology, human behavior, and decision-making. Our model consists of behavior-aware, interaction-aware, priority-aware, and position-aware modules that perceive and understand the underlying interactions and account for uncertainty and variability in prediction, enabling higher-level learning and flexibility without rigid categorization of driving behavior. Importantly, this approach eliminates the need for manual labeling in the training process and addresses the challenges of non-continuous behavior labeling and the selection of appropriate time windows. We evaluate BATs performance across the Next Generation Simulation( NGSIM) , Highway Drone( HighD) , Roundabout Drone( RounD) , and Macao Connected Autonomous Driving( MoCAD) datasets, showcasing its superiority over prevailing state-of-the-art( SOTA) benchmarks in terms of prediction accuracy and efficiency. Remarkably, even when trained on reduced portions of the training data( 25%) , our model outperforms most of the baselines, demonstrating its robustness and efficiency in predicting vehicle trajectories, and the potential to reduce the amount of data required to train autonomous vehicles, especially in corner cases. In conclusion, the behavior-aware model represents a significant advancement in the development of autonomous vehicles capable of predicting trajectories with the same level of proficiency as human drivers. The project page is available on our GitHub.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28900,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28900,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Intelligent Robots( ROB),AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayes DistNet - A Robust Neural Network for Algorithm Runtime Distribution Predictions,Jake Tuero;Michael Buro,"Randomized algorithms are used in many state-of-the-art solvers for constraint satisfaction problems( CSP) and Boolean satisfiability( SAT) problems. For many of these problems, there is no single solver which will dominate others. Having access to the underlying runtime distributions( RTD) of these solvers can allow for better use of algorithm selection, algorithm portfolios, and restart strategies. Previous state-of-the-art methods directly try to predict a fixed parametric distribution that the input instance follows. In this paper, we extend RTD prediction models into the Bayesian setting for the first time. This new model achieves robust predictive performance in the low observation setting, as well as handling censored observations. This technique also allows for richer representations which cannot be achieved by the classical models which restrict their output representations. Our model outperforms the previous state-of-the-art model in settings in which data is scarce, and can make use of censored data such as lower bound time estimates, where that type of data would otherwise be discarded. It can also quantify its uncertainty in its predictions, allowing for algorithm portfolio models to make better informed decisions about which algorithm to run on a particular instance.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17473,10.1609/aaai.v35i14.17473,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayes-Adaptive Interactive POMDPs,Brenda Ng;Kofi Boakye;Carol Meyers;Andrew Wang,"We introduce the Bayes-Adaptive Interactive Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( BA-IPOMDP) , the first multiagent decision model that explicitly incorporates model learning. As in I-POMDPs, the BA-IPOMDP agent maintains beliefs over interactive states, which include the physical states as well as the other agents\'92 models. The BA-IPOMDP assumes that the state transition and observation probabilities are unknown, and augments the interactive states to include these parameters. Beliefs are maintained over this augmented interactive state space. This( necessary) state expansion exacerbates the curse of dimensionality, especially since each I-POMDP belief update is already a recursive procedure( because an agent invokes belief updates from other agents\'92 perspectives as part of its own belief update, in order to anticipate other agents\'92 actions). We extend the interactive particle filter to perform approximate belief update on BA-IPOMDPs. We present our findings on the multiagent Tiger problem.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8264,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8264,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayes-Adaptive Monte-Carlo Planning and Learning for Goal-Oriented Dialogues,Youngsoo Jang;Jongmin Lee;Kee-Eung Kim,"We consider a strategic dialogue task, where the ability to infer the other agents goal is critical to the success of the conversational agent. While this problem can be naturally formulated as Bayesian planning, it is known to be a very difficult problem due to its enormous search space consisting of all possible utterances. In this paper, we introduce an efficient Bayes-adaptive planning algorithm for goal-oriented dialogues, which combines RNN-based dialogue generation and MCTS-based Bayesian planning in a novel way, leading to robust decision-making under the uncertainty of the other agents goal. We then introduce reinforcement learning for the dialogue agent that uses MCTS as a strong policy improvement operator, casting reinforcement learning as iterative alternation of planning and supervised-learning of self-generated dialogues. In the experiments, we demonstrate that our Bayes-adaptive dialogue planning agent significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art in a negotiation dialogue domain. We also show that reinforcement learning via MCTS further improves end-task performance without diverging from human language.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6308,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6308,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayes-TrEx: a Bayesian Sampling Approach to Model Transparency by Example,Serena Booth;Yilun Zhou;Ankit Shah;Julie Shah,"Post-hoc explanation methods are gaining popularity for interpreting, understanding, and debugging neural networks. Most analyses using such methods explain decisions in response to inputs drawn from the test set. However, the test set may have few examples that trigger some model behaviors, such as high-confidence failures or ambiguous classifications. To address these challenges, we introduce a flexible model inspection framework: Bayes-TrEx. Given a data distribution, Bayes-TrEx finds in-distribution examples which trigger a specified prediction confidence. We demonstrate several use cases of Bayes-TrEx, including revealing highly confident( mis) classifications, visualizing class boundaries via ambiguous examples, understanding novel-class extrapolation behavior, and exposing neural network overconfidence. We use Bayes-TrEx to study classifiers trained on CLEVR, MNIST, and Fashion-MNIST, and we show that this framework enables more flexible holistic model analysis than just inspecting the test set. Code and supplemental material are available at https://github. com/serenabooth/Bayes-TrEx.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17361,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17361,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayesian Fairness,Christos Dimitrakakis;Yang Liu;David C. Parkes;Goran Radanovic,"We consider the problem of how decision making can be fair when the underlying probabilistic model of the world is not known with certainty. We argue that recent notions of fairness in machine learning need to explicitly incorporate parameter uncertainty, hence we introduce the notion of Bayesian fairness as a suitable candidate for fair decision rules. Using balance, a definition of fairness introduced in( Kleinberg, Mullainathan, and Raghavan 2016) , we show how a Bayesian perspective can lead to well-performing and fair decision rules even under high uncertainty.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3824,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.3301509,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Technical Track: AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayesian Learning of Other Agents Finite Controllers for Interactive POMDPs,Alessandro Panella;Piotr Gmytrasiewicz,"We consider an autonomous agent operating in a stochastic, partially-observable, multiagent environment, that explicitly models the other agents as probabilistic deterministic finite-state controllers( PDFCs) in order to predict their actions. We assume that such models are not given to the agent, but instead must be learned from( possibly imperfect) observations of the other agents behavior. The agent maintains a belief over the other agents models, that is updated via Bayesian inference. To represent this belief we place a flexible stick-breaking distribution over PDFCs, that allows the posterior to concentrate around controllers whose size is not bounded and scales with the complexity of the observed data. Since this Bayesian inference task is not analytically tractable, we devise a Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm to approximate the posterior distribution. The agent then embeds the result of this inference into its own decision making process using the interactive POMDP framework. We show that our learning algorithm can learn agent models that are behaviorally accurate for problems of varying complexity, and that the agents performance increases as a result.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10136,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10136,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayesian Optimized Monte Carlo Planning,John Mern;Anil Yildiz;Zachary Sunberg;Tapan Mukerji;Mykel J. Kochenderfer,"Online solvers for partially observable Markov decision processes have difficulty scaling to problems with large action spaces. Monte Carlo tree search with progressive widening attempts to improve scaling by sampling from the action space to construct a policy search tree. The performance of progressive widening search is dependent upon the action sampling policy, often requiring problem-specific samplers. In this work, we present a general method for efficient action sampling based on Bayesian optimization. The proposed method uses a Gaussian process to model a belief over the action-value function and selects the action that will maximize the expected improvement in the optimal action value. We implement the proposed approach in a new online tree search algorithm called Bayesian Optimized Monte Carlo Planning( BOMCP). Several experiments show that BOMCP is better able to scale to large action space POMDPs than existing state-of-the-art tree search solvers.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17411,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17411,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bayesian Persuasion in Sequential Decision-Making,Jiarui Gan;Rupak Majumdar;Goran Radanovic;Adish Singla,"We study a dynamic model of Bayesian persuasion in sequential decision-making settings. An informed principal observes an external parameter of the world and advises an uninformed agent about actions to take over time. The agent takes actions in each time step based on the current state, the principals advice/signal, and beliefs about the external parameter. The action of the agent updates the state according to a stochastic process. The model arises naturally in many applications, e. g. , an app( the principal) can advice the user( the agent) on possible choices between actions based on additional real-time information the app has. We study the problem of designing a signaling strategy from the principals point of view. We show that the principal has an optimal strategy against a myopic agent, who only optimizes their rewards locally, and the optimal strategy can be computed in polynomial time. In contrast, it is NP-hard to approximate an optimal policy against a far-sighted agent. Further, we show that if the principal has the power to threaten the agent by not providing future signals, then we can efficiently design a threat-based strategy. This strategy guarantees the principals payoff as if playing against an agent who is far-sighted but myopic to future signals.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20434,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20434,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Being Optimistic to Be Conservative: Quickly Learning a CVaR Policy,Ramtin Keramati;Christoph Dann;Alex Tamkin;Emma Brunskill,"While maximizing expected return is the goal in most reinforcement learning approaches, risk-sensitive objectives such as conditional value at risk( CVaR) are more suitable for many high-stakes applications. However, relatively little is known about how to explore to quickly learn policies with good CVaR. In this paper, we present the first algorithm for sample-efficient learning of CVaR-optimal policies in Markov decision processes based on the optimism in the face of uncertainty principle. This method relies on a novel optimistic version of the distributional Bellman operator that moves probability mass from the lower to the upper tail of the return distribution. We prove asymptotic convergence and optimism of this operator for the tabular policy evaluation case. We further demonstrate that our algorithm finds CVaR-optimal policies substantially faster than existing baselines in several simulated environments with discrete and continuous state spaces.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5870,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5870,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Belief Reward Shaping in Reinforcement Learning,Ofir Marom;Benjamin Rosman,"A key challenge in many reinforcement learning problems is delayed rewards, which can significantly slow down learning. Although reward shaping has previously been introduced to accelerate learning by bootstrapping an agent with additional information, this can lead to problems with convergence. We present a novel Bayesian reward shaping framework that augments the reward distribution with prior beliefs that decay with experience. Formally, we prove that under suitable conditions a Markov decision process augmented with our framework is consistent with the optimal policy of the original MDP when using the Q-learning algorithm. However, in general our method integrates seamlessly with any reinforcement learning algorithm that learns a value or action-value function through experience. Experiments are run on a gridworld and a more complex backgammon domain that show that we can learn tasks significantly faster when we specify intuitive priors on the reward distribution.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11741,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11741,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bellman Meets Hawkes: Model-Based Reinforcement Learning via Temporal Point Processes,Chao Qu;Xiaoyu Tan;Siqiao Xue;Xiaoming Shi;James Zhang;Hongyuan Mei,"We consider a sequential decision making problem where the agent faces the environment characterized by the stochastic discrete events and seeks an optimal intervention policy such that its long-term reward is maximized. This problem exists ubiquitously in social media, finance and health informatics but is rarely investigated by the conventional research in reinforcement learning. To this end, we present a novel framework of the model-based reinforcement learning where the agents actions and observations are asynchronous stochastic discrete events occurring in continuous-time. We model the dynamics of the environment by Hawkes process with external intervention control term and develop an algorithm to embed such process in the Bellman equation which guides the direction of the value gradient. We demonstrate the superiority of our method in both synthetic simulator and real-data experiments.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26142,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26142,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Better Bounds on the Adaptivity Gap of Influence Maximization under Full-adoption Feedback,Gianlorenzo D'Angelo;Debashmita Poddar;Cosimo Vinci,"In the influence maximization( IM) problem, we are given a social network and a budget k, and we look for a set of k nodes in the network, called seeds, that maximize the expected number of nodes that are reached by an influence cascade generated by the seeds, according to some stochastic model for influence diffusion. Extensive studies have been done on the IM problem, since his definition by Kempe, Kleinberg, and Tardos( 2003). However, most of the work focuses on the non-adaptive version of the problem where all the k seed nodes must be selected before that the cascade starts. In this paper we study the adaptive IM, where the nodes are selected sequentially one by one, and the decision on the i-th seed can be based on the observed cascade produced by the first i-1 seeds. We focus on the full-adoption feedback in which we can observe the entire cascade of each previously selected seed and on the independent cascade model where each edge is associated with an independent probability of diffusing influence. Previous works showed that there are constant upper bounds on the adaptivity gap, which compares the performance of an adaptive algorithm against a non-adaptive one, but the analyses used to prove these bounds only works for specific graph classes such as in-arborescences, out-arborescences, and one-directional bipartite graphs. Our main result is the first sub-linear upper bound that holds for any graph. Specifically, we show that the adaptivity gap is upper-bounded by \uc0\u8731 n+1, where n is the number of nodes in the graph. Moreover we improve over the known upper bound for in-arborescences from 2e/( e-1) \u8776 3. 16 to 2e\'b2/( e\'b2-1) \u8776 2. 31. Finally, we study \u945 -bounded graphs, a class of undirected graphs in which the sum of node degrees higher than two is at most \u945 , and show that the adaptivity gap is upper-bounded by \u8730 \u945 +O( 1). Moreover, we show that in 0-bounded graphs, i. e. undirected graphs in which each connected component is a path or a cycle, the adaptivity gap is at most 3e\'b3/( e\'b3-1) \u8776 3. 16. To prove our bounds, we introduce new techniques to relate adaptive policies with non-adaptive ones that might be of their own interest.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17433,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17433,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Beyond Distributive Fairness in Algorithmic Decision Making: Feature Selection for Procedurally Fair Learning,Nina Grgi\uc0\u263 -Hla\u269 a;Muhammad Bilal Zafar;Krishna P. Gummadi;Adrian Weller,"With widespread use of machine learning methods in numerous domains involving humans, several studies have raised questions about the potential for unfairness towards certain individuals or groups. A number of recent works have proposed methods to measure and eliminate unfairness from machine learning models. However, most of this work has focused on only one dimension of fair decision making: distributive fairness, i. e. , the fairness of the decision outcomes. In this work, we leverage the rich literature on organizational justice and focus on another dimension of fair decision making: procedural fairness, i. e. , the fairness of the decision making process. We propose measures for procedural fairness that consider the input features used in the decision process, and evaluate the moral judgments of humans regarding the use of these features. We operationalize these measures on two real world datasets using human surveys on the Amazon Mechanical Turk( AMT) platform, demonstrating that our measures capture important properties of procedurally fair decision making. We provide fast submodular mechanisms to optimize the tradeoff between procedural fairness and prediction accuracy. On our datasets, we observe empirically that procedural fairness may be achieved with little cost to outcome fairness, but that some loss of accuracy is unavoidable.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11296,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11296,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Beyond Mimicking Under-Represented Emotions: Deep Data Augmentation with Emotional Subspace Constraints for EEG-Based Emotion Recognition,Zhi Zhang;Shenghua Zhong;Yan Liu,"In recent years, using Electroencephalography( EEG) to recognize emotions has garnered considerable attention. Despite advancements, limited EEG data restricts its potential. Thus, Generative Adversarial Networks( GANs) are proposed to mimic the observed distributions and generate EEG data. However, for imbalanced datasets, GANs struggle to produce reliable augmentations for under-represented minority emotions by merely mimicking them. Thus, we introduce Emotional Subspace Constrained Generative Adversarial Networks( ESC-GAN) as an alternative to existing frameworks. We first propose the EEG editing paradigm, editing reference EEG signals from well-represented to under-represented emotional subspaces. Then, we introduce diversity-aware and boundary-aware losses to constrain the augmented subspace. Here, the diversity-aware loss encourages a diverse emotional subspace by enlarging the sample difference, while boundary-aware loss constrains the augmented subspace near the decision boundary where recognition models can be vulnerable. Experiments show ESC-GAN boosts emotion recognition performance on benchmark datasets, DEAP, AMIGOS, and SEED, while protecting against potential adversarial attacks. Finally, the proposed method opens new avenues for editing EEG signals under emotional subspace constraints, facilitating unbiased and secure EEG data augmentation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28891,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28891,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Beyond NaN: Resiliency of Optimization Layers in the Face of Infeasibility,Wai Tuck Wong;Sarah Kinsey;Ramesha Karunasena;Thanh H. Nguyen;Arunesh Sinha,"Prior work has successfully incorporated optimization layers as the last layer in neural networks for various problems, thereby allowing joint learning and planning in one neural network forward pass. In this work, we identify a weakness in such a set-up where inputs to the optimization layer lead to undefined output of the neural network. Such undefined decision outputs can lead to possible catastrophic outcomes in critical real time applications. We show that an adversary can cause such failures by forcing rank deficiency on the matrix fed to the optimization layer which results in the optimization failing to produce a solution. We provide a defense for the failure cases by controlling the condition number of the input matrix. We study the problem in the settings of synthetic data, Jigsaw Sudoku, and in speed planning for autonomous driving. We show that our proposed defense effectively prevents the framework from failing with undefined output. Finally, we surface a number of edge cases which lead to serious bugs in popular optimization solvers which can be abused as well.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26778,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26778,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Beyond Sparsity: Tree Regularization of Deep Models for Interpretability,Mike Wu;Michael Hughes;Sonali Parbhoo;Maurizio Zazzi;Volker Roth;Finale Doshi-Velez,"The lack of interpretability remains a key barrier to the adoption of deep models in many applications. In this work, we explicitly regularize deep models so human users might step through the process behind their predictions in little time. Specifically, we train deep time-series models so their class-probability predictions have high accuracy while being closely modeled by decision trees with few nodes. Using intuitive toy examples as well as medical tasks for treating sepsis and HIV, we demonstrate that this new tree regularization yields models that are easier for humans to simulate than simpler L1 or L2 penalties without sacrificing predictive power.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11501,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11501,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Beyond TreeSHAP: Efficient Computation of Any-Order Shapley Interactions for Tree Ensembles,Maximilian Muschalik;Fabian Fumagalli;Barbara Hammer;Eyke H\'fcllermeier,"While shallow decision trees may be interpretable, larger ensemble models like gradient-boosted trees, which often set the state of the art in machine learning problems involving tabular data, still remain black box models. As a remedy, the Shapley value( SV) is a well-known concept in explainable artificial intelligence( XAI) research for quantifying additive feature attributions of predictions. The model-specific TreeSHAP methodology solves the exponential complexity for retrieving exact SVs from tree-based models. Expanding beyond individual feature attribution, Shapley interactions reveal the impact of intricate feature interactions of any order. In this work, we present TreeSHAP-IQ, an efficient method to compute any-order additive Shapley interactions for predictions of tree-based models. TreeSHAP-IQ is supported by a mathematical framework that exploits polynomial arithmetic to compute the interaction scores in a single recursive traversal of the tree, akin to Linear TreeSHAP. We apply TreeSHAP-IQ on state-of-the-art tree ensembles and explore interactions on well-established benchmark datasets.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29352,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29352,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bi-Classifier Determinacy Maximization for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation,Shuang Li;Fangrui Lv;Binhui Xie;Chi Harold Liu;Jian Liang;Chen Qin,"Unsupervised domain adaptation challenges the problem of transferring knowledge from a well-labelled source domain to an unlabelled target domain. Recently, adversarial learning with bi-classifier has been proven effective in pushing cross-domain distributions close. Prior approaches typically leverage the disagreement between bi-classifier to learn transferable representations, however, they often neglect the classifier determinacy in the target domain, which could result in a lack of feature discriminability. In this paper, we present a simple yet effective method, namely Bi-Classifier Determinacy Maximization( BCDM) , to tackle this problem. Motivated by the observation that target samples cannot always be separated distinctly by the decision boundary, here in the proposed BCDM, we design a novel classifier determinacy disparity( CDD) metric, which formulates classifier discrepancy as the class relevance of distinct target predictions and implicitly introduces constraint on the target feature discriminability. To this end, the BCDM can generate discriminative representations by encouraging target predictive outputs to be consistent and determined, meanwhile, preserve the diversity of predictions in an adversarial manner. Furthermore, the properties of CDD as well as the theoretical guarantees of BCDMs generalization bound are both elaborated. Extensive experiments show that BCDM compares favorably against the existing state-of-the-art domain adaptation methods.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17027,10.1609/aaai.v35i10.17027,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bi-Kronecker Functional Decision Diagrams: A Novel Canonical Representation of Boolean Functions,Xuanxiang Huang;Kehang Fang;Liangda Fang;Qingliang Chen;Zhao-Rong Lai;Linfeng Wei,"In this paper, we present a novel data structure for compact representation and effective manipulations of Boolean functions, called Bi-Kronecker Functional Decision Diagrams( BKFDDs). BKFDDs integrate the classical expansions( the Shannon and Davio expansions) and their bi-versions. Thus, BKFDDs are the generalizations of existing decision diagrams: BDDs, FDDs, KFDDs and BBDDs. Interestingly, under certain conditions, it is sufficient to consider the above expansions( the classical expansions and their bi-versions). By imposing reduction and ordering rules, BKFDDs are compact and canonical forms of Boolean functions. The experimental results demonstrate that BKFDDs outperform other existing decision diagrams in terms of sizes.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4140,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012867,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bidirectional Domain Mixup for Domain Adaptive Semantic Segmentation,Daehan Kim;Minseok Seo;Kwanyong Park;Inkyu Shin;Sanghyun Woo;In So Kweon;Dong-Geol Choi,"Mixup provides interpolated training samples and allows the model to obtain smoother decision boundaries for better generalization. The idea can be naturally applied to the domain adaptation task, where we can mix the source and target samples to obtain domain-mixed samples for better adaptation. However, the extension of the idea from classification to segmentation( i. e. , structured output) is nontrivial. This paper systematically studies the impact of mixup under the domain adaptive semantic segmentation task and presents a simple yet effective mixup strategy called Bidirectional Domain Mixup( BDM). In specific, we achieve domain mixup in two-step: cut and paste. Given the warm-up model trained from any adaptation techniques, we forward the source and target samples and perform a simple threshold-based cut out of the unconfident regions( cut). After then, we fill-in the dropped regions with the other domain region patches( paste). In doing so, we jointly consider class distribution, spatial structure, and pseudo label confidence. Based on our analysis, we found that BDM leaves domain transferable regions by cutting, balances the dataset-level class distribution while preserving natural scene context by pasting. We coupled our proposal with various state-of-the-art adaptation models and observe significant improvement consistently. We also provide extensive ablation experiments to empirically verify our main components of the framework. Visit our project page with the code at https://sites. google. com/view/bidirectional-domain-mixup",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25193,10.1609/aaai.v37i1.25193,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Big-Data Mechanisms and Energy-Policy Design,Ankit Pat;Kate Larson;Srinivasen Keshav,"A confluence of technical, economic and political forces are revolutionizing the energy sector. Policy-makers, who decide on incentives and penalties for possible courses of actions, play a critical role in determining which outcomes arise. However, designing appropriate energy policies is a complex and challenging task. Our vision is to provide tools and methodologies for policy makers so that they can leverage the power of big data to make evidence-based decisions. In this paper we present an approach we call big-data mechanism design which combines a mechanism design framework with stakeholder surveys and data to allow policy-makers to gauge the costs and benefits of potential policy decisions. We illustrate the effectiveness of this approach in a concrete application domain: the peaksaver PLUS program in Ontario, Canada.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9910,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9910,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track: Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,BIRD: Engineering an Efficient CNF-XOR SAT Solver and Its Applications to Approximate Model Counting,Mate Soos;Kuldeep S. Meel,"Given a Boolean formula \uc0\u966 , the problem of model counting, also referred to as #SAT is to compute the number of solutions of \u966 . Model counting is a fundamental problem in artificial intelligence with a wide range of applications including probabilistic reasoning, decision making under uncertainty, quantified information flow, and the like. Motivated by the success of SAT solvers, there has been surge of interest in the design of hashing-based techniques for approximate model counting for the past decade. We profiled the state of the art approximate model counter ApproxMC2 and observed that over 99. 99% of time is consumed by the underlying SAT solver, CryptoMiniSat. This observation motivated us to ask: Can we design an efficient underlying CNF-XOR SAT solver that can take advantage of the structure of hashing-based algorithms and would this lead to an efficient approximate model counter? The primary contribution of this paper is an affirmative answer to the above question. We present a novel architecture, called BIRD, to handle CNF-XOR formulas arising from hashingbased techniques. The resulting hashing-based approximate model counter, called ApproxMC3, employs the BIRD framework in its underlying SAT solver, CryptoMiniSat. To the best of our knowledge, we conducted the most comprehensive study of evaluation performance of counting algorithms involving 1896 benchmarks with computational effort totaling 86400 computational hours. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates significant runtime performance improvement for ApproxMC3 over ApproxMC2. In particular, we solve 648 benchmarks more than ApproxMC2, the state of the art approximate model counter and for all the formulas where both ApproxMC2 and ApproxMC3 did not timeout and took more than 1 seconds, the mean speedup is 284. 40 \'96 more than two orders of magnitude. Erratum: This research is supported in part by the National Research Foundation Singapore under its AI Singapore Programme( Award Number: [AISG-RP-2018-005])",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3974,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011592,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Blockwise Sequential Model Learning for Partially Observable Reinforcement Learning,Giseung Park;Sungho Choi;Youngchul Sung,"This paper proposes a new sequential model learning architecture to solve partially observable Markov decision problems. Rather than compressing sequential information at every timestep as in conventional recurrent neural network-based methods, the proposed architecture generates a latent variable in each data block with a length of multiple timesteps and passes the most relevant information to the next block for policy optimization. The proposed blockwise sequential model is implemented based on self-attention, making the model capable of detailed sequential learning in partial observable settings. The proposed model builds an additional learning network to efficiently implement gradient estimation by using self-normalized importance sampling, which does not require the complex blockwise input data reconstruction in the model learning. Numerical results show that the proposed method significantly outperforms previous methods in various partially observable environments.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20764,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20764,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bootstrap Estimated Uncertainty of the Environment Model for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning,Wenzhen Huang;Junge Zhang;Kaiqi Huang,"Model-based reinforcement learning( RL) methods attempt to learn a dynamics model to simulate the real environment and utilize the model to make better decisions. However, the learned environment simulator often has more or less model error which would disturb making decision and reduce performance. We propose a bootstrapped model-based RL method which bootstraps the modules in each depth of the planning tree. This method can quantify the uncertainty of environment model on different state-action pairs and lead the agent to explore the pairs with higher uncertainty to reduce the potential model errors. Moreover, we sample target values from their bootstrap distribution to connect the uncertainties at current and subsequent time-steps and introduce the prior mechanism to improve the exploration efficiency. Experiment results demonstrate that our method efficiently decreases model error and outperforms TreeQN and other stateof-the-art methods on multiple Atari games.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4275,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013870,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bootstrapping Multi-View Representations for Fake News Detection,Qichao Ying;Xiaoxiao Hu;Yangming Zhou;Zhenxing Qian;Dan Zeng;Shiming Ge,"Previous researches on multimedia fake news detection include a series of complex feature extraction and fusion networks to gather useful information from the news. However, how cross-modal consistency relates to the fidelity of news and how features from different modalities affect the decision-making are still open questions. This paper presents a novel scheme of Bootstrapping Multi-view Representations( BMR) for fake news detection. Given a multi-modal news, we extract representations respectively from the views of the text, the image pattern and the image semantics. Improved Multi-gate Mixture-of-Expert networks( iMMoE) are proposed for feature refinement and fusion. Representations from each view are separately used to coarsely predict the fidelity of the whole news, and the multimodal representations are able to predict the cross-modal consistency. With the prediction scores, we reweigh each view of the representations and bootstrap them for fake news detection. Extensive experiments conducted on typical fake news detection datasets prove that BMR outperforms state-of-the-art schemes.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25670,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25670,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bounded Optimal Exploration in MDP,Kenji Kawaguchi,"Within the framework of probably approximately correct Markov decision processes( PAC-MDP) , much theoretical work has focused on methods to attain near optimality after a relatively long period of learning and exploration. However, practical concerns require the attainment of satisfactory behavior within a short period of time. In this paper, we relax the PAC-MDP conditions to reconcile theoretically driven exploration methods and practical needs. We propose simple algorithms for discrete and continuous state spaces, and illustrate the benefits of our proposed relaxation via theoretical analyses and numerical examples. Our algorithms also maintain anytime error bounds and average loss bounds. Our approach accommodates both Bayesian and non-Bayesian methods.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10230,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10230,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bounded Rationality of Restricted Turing Machines,Lijie Chen;Pingzhong Tang;Ruosong Wang,"Bounded rationality aims to understand the effects of how limited rationality affects decision-making. The traditional models in game theory and multiagent system research, such as finite automata or unrestricted Turing machine, fall short of capturing how intelligent agents make decision in realistic applications. To address this problem, we model bounded rational agents as restricted Turing machines: restrictions on running time and on storage space. We study our model under the context of two-person repeated games. In the case where the running time of Turing machines is restricted, we show that computing the best response of a given strategy is much harder than the strategy itself. In the case where the storage space of the Turing machines is restricted, we show the best response of a space restricted strategy can not be implemented by machines within the same size( up to a constant factor). Finally, we study how these restrictions affect the set of Nash equilibria in infinitely repeated games. We show restricting the agent\'92s computational resources will give rise to new Nash equilibria.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10564,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10564,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bounded Risk-Sensitive Markov Games: Forward Policy Design and Inverse Reward Learning with Iterative Reasoning and Cumulative Prospect Theory,Ran Tian;Liting Sun;Masayoshi Tomizuka,"Classical game-theoretic approaches for multi-agent systems in both the forward policy design problem and the inverse reward learning problem often make strong rationality assumptions: agents perfectly maximize expected utilities under uncertainties. Such assumptions, however, substantially mismatch with observed human behaviors such as satisficing with sub-optimal, risk-seeking, and loss-aversion decisions. Drawing on iterative reasoning models and cumulative prospect theory, we propose a new game-theoretic framework, bounded risk-sensitive Markov Game( BRSMG) , that captures two aspects of realistic human behaviors: bounded intelligence and risk-sensitivity. General solutions to both the forward policy design problem and the inverse reward learning problem are provided with theoretical analysis and simulation verification. We validate the proposed forward policy design algorithm and the inverse reward learning algorithm in a two-player navigation scenario. The results show that agents demonstrate bounded-intelligence, risk-averse and risk-seeking behaviors in our framework. Moreover, in the inverse reward learning task, the proposed bounded risk-sensitive inverse learning algorithm outperforms a baseline risk-neutral inverse learning algorithm by effectively learning not only more accurate reward values but also the intelligence levels and the risk-measure parameters of agents from demonstrations.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16750,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16750,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bounding the Probability of Resource Constraint Violations in Multi-Agent MDPs,Frits de Nijs;Erwin Walraven;Mathijs de Weerdt;Matthijs Spaan,"Multi-agent planning problems with constraints on global resource consumption occur in several domains. Existing algorithms for solving Multi-agent Markov Decision Processes can compute policies that meet a resource constraint in expectation, but these policies provide no guarantees on the probability that a resource constraint violation will occur. We derive a method to bound constraint violation probabilities using Hoeffdings inequality. This method is applied to two existing approaches for computing policies satisfying constraints: the Constrained MDP framework and a Column Generation approach. We also introduce an algorithm to adaptively relax the bound up to a given maximum violation tolerance. Experiments on a hard toy problem show that the resulting policies outperform static optimal resource allocations to an arbitrary level. By testing the algorithms on more realistic planning domains from the literature, we demonstrate that the adaptive bound is able to efficiently trade off violation probability with expected value, outperforming state-of-the-art planners.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11037,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11037,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Bounding Uncertainty for Active Batch Selection,Hanmo Wang;Runwu Zhou;Yi-Dong Shen,"The success of batch mode active learning( BMAL) methods lies in selecting both representative and uncertain samples. Representative samples quickly capture the global structure of the whole dataset, while the uncertain ones refine the decision boundary. There are two principles, namely the direct approach and the screening approach, to make a trade-off between representativeness and uncertainty. Although widely used in literature, little is known about the relationship between these two principles. In this paper, we discover that the two approaches both have shortcomings in the initial stage of BMAL. To alleviate the shortcomings, we bound the certainty scores of unlabeled samples from below and directly combine this lower-bounded certainty with representativeness in the objective function. Additionally, we show that the two aforementioned approaches are mathematically equivalent to two special cases of our approach. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that tries to generalize the direct and screening approaches. The objective function is then solved by super-modularity optimization. Extensive experiments on fifteen datasets indicate that our method has significantly higher classification accuracy on testing data than the latest state-of-the-art BMAL methods, and also scales better even when the size of the unlabeled pool reaches 106.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4459,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015240,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Building Trust in Deep Learning System towards Automated Disease Detection,Zhan Wei Lim;Mong Li Lee;Wynne Hsu;Tien Yin Wong,"Though deep learning systems have achieved high accuracy in detecting diseases from medical images, few such systems have been deployed in highly automated disease screening settings due to lack of trust in how well these systems can generalize to out-of-datasets. We propose to use uncertainty estimates of the deep learning system\'92s prediction to know when to accept or to disregard its prediction. We evaluate the effectiveness of using such estimates in a real-life application for the screening of diabetic retinopathy. We also generate visual explanation of the deep learning system to convey the pixels in the image that influences its decision. Together, these reveal the deep learning system\'92s competency and limits to the human, and in turn the human can know when to trust the deep learning system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5009,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019516,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,C2L: Causally Contrastive Learning for Robust Text Classification,Seungtaek Choi;Myeongho Jeong;Hojae Han;Seung-won Hwang,"Despite the super-human accuracy of recent deep models in NLP tasks, their robustness is reportedly limited due to their reliance on spurious patterns. We thus aim to leverage contrastive learning and counterfactual augmentation for robustness. For augmentation, existing work either requires humans to add counterfactuals to the dataset or machines to automatically matches near-counterfactuals already in the dataset. Unlike existing augmentation is affected by spurious correlations, ours, by synthesizing \'93a set\'94 of counterfactuals, and making a collective decision on the distribution of predictions on this set, can robustly supervise the causality of each term. Our empirical results show that our approach, by collective decisions, is less sensitive to task model bias of attribution-based synthesis, and thus achieves significant improvements, in diverse dimensions: 1) counterfactual robustness, 2) cross-domain generalization, and 3) generalization from scarce data.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21296,10.1609/aaai.v36i10.21296,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Can Eruptions Be Predicted? Short-Term Prediction of Volcanic Eruptions via Attention-Based Long Short-Term Memory,Hiep V. Le;Tsuyoshi Murata;Masato Iguchi,"Short-term prediction of volcanic eruptions is one of the ultimate objectives of volcanology. At Sakurajima volcano, an active volcano in Japan, experts monitor the volcanic sensor data and analyze the prior signal to predict the eruptions. Even though experts derived some patterns, it is hard to make a good prediction due to handcrafted features. To address this issue, we propose to predict eruptions using machine learning. In this paper, we attempt to predict the eruptions hourly by adapting several machine learning methods including traditional and deep learning approaches. As recurrent neural network is well-known for extracting the time-sensitive features, we propose the model especially for volcanic eruption prediction named VepNet. The assumption is based on domain knowledge that some specific triggers are the main causes of future eruptions. To take this advantage, VepNet deploys an attention layer to locate and prioritize these triggers in decision making. The extensive experiments ever conducted using data from Sakurajima volcano showed the effectiveness of deep learning approach over the traditional approach. On top of that, VepNet showed its effectiveness on prediction with AUC-score up to 0. 8665. Moreover, an attempt has been made to explain the mechanism of the eruptions by analyzing the attention layer of VepNet. Lastly, to support volcano expert in issuing warnings and the safety of living people around Sakurajima, a warning system named 3LWS is proposed. The system predicted the eruptions hourly with high accuracy and reliability with the eruption rate up to 68. 97% in the High-Risk level.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/7043,10.1609/aaai.v34i08.7043,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Can We Predict the Election Outcome from Sampled Votes?,Evi Micha;Nisarg Shah,"In the standard model of voting, it is assumed that a voting rule observes the ranked preferences of each individual over a set of alternatives and makes a collective decision. In practice, however, not every individual votes. Is it possible to make a good collective decision for a group given the preferences of only a few of its members? We propose a framework in which we are given the ranked preferences of k out of n individuals sampled from a distribution, and the goal is to predict what a given voting rule would output if applied on the underlying preferences of all n individuals. We focus on the family of positional scoring rules, derive a strong negative result when the underlying preferences can be arbitrary, and discover interesting phenomena when they are generated from a known distribution.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5593,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5593,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Capsule Routing via Variational Bayes,Fabio De Sousa Ribeiro;Georgios Leontidis;Stefanos Kollias,"Capsule networks are a recently proposed type of neural network shown to outperform alternatives in challenging shape recognition tasks. In capsule networks, scalar neurons are replaced with capsule vectors or matrices, whose entries represent different properties of objects. The relationships between objects and their parts are learned via trainable viewpoint-invariant transformation matrices, and the presence of a given object is decided by the level of agreement among votes from its parts. This interaction occurs between capsule layers and is a process called routing-by-agreement. In this paper, we propose a new capsule routing algorithm derived from Variational Bayes for fitting a mixture of transforming gaussians, and show it is possible transform our capsule network into a Capsule-VAE. Our Bayesian approach addresses some of the inherent weaknesses of MLE based models such as the variance-collapse by modelling uncertainty over capsule pose parameters. We outperform the state-of-the-art on smallNORB using \uc0\u8771 50% fewer capsules than previously reported, achieve competitive performances on CIFAR-10, Fashion-MNIST, SVHN, and demonstrate significant improvement in MNIST to affNIST generalisation over previous works. 1",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5785,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5785,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Category Dictionary Guided Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Object Detection,Shuai Li;Jianqiang Huang;Xian-Sheng Hua;Lei Zhang,"Unsupervised domain adaption( UDA) is a promising solution to enhance the generalization ability of a model from a source domain to a target domain without manually annotating labels for target data. Recent works in cross-domain object detection mostly resort to adversarial feature adaptation to match the marginal distributions of two domains. However, perfect feature alignment is hard to achieve and is likely to cause negative transfer due to the high complexity of object detection. In this paper, we propose a category dictionary guided( CDG) UDA model for cross-domain object detection, which learns category-specific dictionaries from the source domain to represent the candidate boxes in target domain. The representation residual can be used for not only pseudo label assignment but also quality( e. g. , IoU) estimation of the candidate box. A residual weighted self-training paradigm is then developed to implicitly align source and target domains for detection model training. Compared with decision boundary based classifiers such as softmax, the proposed CDG scheme can select more informative and reliable pseudo-boxes. Experimental results on benchmark datasets show that the proposed CDG significantly exceeds the state-of-the-arts in cross-domain object detection.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16290,10.1609/aaai.v35i3.16290,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Causal Explanation Under Indeterminism: A Sampling Approach,Christopher Merck;Samantha Kleinberg,"One of the key uses of causes is to explain why things happen. Explanations of specific events, like an individuals heart attack on Monday afternoon or a particular car accident, help assign responsibility and inform our future decisions. Computational methods for causal inference make use of the vast amounts of data collected by individuals to better understand their behavior and improve their health. However, most methods for explanation of specific events have provided theoretical approaches with limited applicability. In contrast we make two main contributions: an algorithm for explanation that calculates the strength of token causes, and an evaluation based on simulated data that enables objective comparison against prior methods and ground truth. We show that the approach finds the correct relationships in classic test cases( causal chains, common cause, and backup causation) and in a realistic scenario( explaining hyperglycemic episodes in a simulation of type 1 diabetes).",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10088,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10088,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Causal Strategic Learning with Competitive Selection,Kiet Q. H. Vo;Muneeb Aadil;Siu Lun Chau;Krikamol Muandet,"We study the problem of agent selection in causal strategic learning under multiple decision makers and address two key challenges that come with it. Firstly, while much of prior work focuses on studying a fixed pool of agents that remains static regardless of their evaluations, we consider the impact of selection procedure by which agents are not only evaluated, but also selected. When each decision maker unilaterally selects agents by maximising their own utility, we show that the optimal selection rule is a trade-off between selecting the best agents and providing incentives to maximise the agents improvement. Furthermore, this optimal selection rule relies on incorrect predictions of agents outcomes. Hence, we study the conditions under which a decision makers optimal selection rule will not lead to deterioration of agents outcome nor cause unjust reduction in agents selection chance. To that end, we provide an analytical form of the optimal selection rule and a mechanism to retrieve the causal parameters from observational data, under certain assumptions on agents behaviour. Secondly, when there are multiple decision makers, the interference between selection rules introduces another source of biases in estimating the underlying causal parameters. To address this problem, we provide a cooperative protocol which all decision makers must collectively adopt to recover the true causal parameters. Lastly, we complement our theoretical results with simulation studies. Our results highlight not only the importance of causal modeling as a strategy to mitigate the effect of gaming, as suggested by previous work, but also the need of a benevolent regulator to enable it.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29466,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29466,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Causal Transfer for Imitation Learning and Decision Making under Sensor-Shift,Jalal Etesami;Philipp Geiger,"Learning from demonstrations( LfD) is an efficient paradigm to train AI agents. But major issues arise when there are differences between( a) the demonstrators own sensory input, ( b) our sensors that observe the demonstrator and( c) the sensory input of the agent we train. In this paper, we propose a causal model-based framework for transfer learning under such \'93sensor-shifts\'94, for two common LfD tasks:( 1) inferring the effect of the demonstrators actions and( 2) imitation learning. First we rigorously analyze, on the population-level, to what extent the relevant underlying mechanisms( the action effects and the demonstrator policy) can be identified and transferred from the available observations together with prior knowledge of sensor characteristics. And we device an algorithm to infer these mechanisms. Then we introduce several proxy methods which are easier to calculate, estimate from finite data and interpret than the exact solutions, alongside theoretical bounds on their closeness to the exact ones. We validate our two main methods on simulated and semi-real world data.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6571,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6571,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CAVEN: An Embodied Conversational Agent for Efficient Audio-Visual Navigation in Noisy Environments,Xiulong Liu;Sudipta Paul;Moitreya Chatterjee;Anoop Cherian,"Audio-visual navigation of an agent towards locating an audio goal is a challenging task especially when the audio is sporadic or the environment is noisy. In this paper, we present CAVEN, a Conversation-based Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation framework in which the agent may interact with a human/oracle for solving the task of navigating to an audio goal. Specifically, CAVEN is modeled as a budget-aware partially observable semi-Markov decision process that implicitly learns the uncertainty in the audio-based navigation policy to decide when and how the agent may interact with the oracle. Our CAVEN agent can engage in fully-bidirectional natural language conversations by producing relevant questions and interpret free-form, potentially noisy responses from the oracle based on the audio-visual context. To enable such a capability, CAVEN is equipped with: i) a trajectory forecasting network that is grounded in audio-visual cues to produce a potential trajectory to the estimated goal, and( ii) a natural language based question generation and reasoning network to pose an interactive question to the oracle or interpret the oracles response to produce navigation instructions. To train the interactive modules, we present a large scale dataset: AVN-Instruct, based on the Landmark-RxR dataset. To substantiate the usefulness of conversations, we present experiments on the benchmark audio-goal task using the SoundSpaces simulator under various noisy settings. Our results reveal that our fully-conversational approach leads to nearly an order-of-magnitude improvement in success rate, especially in localizing new sound sources and against methods that use only uni-directional interaction.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28167,10.1609/aaai.v38i4.28167,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CBRAP: Contextual Bandits with RAndom Projection,Xiaotian Yu;Michael R. Lyu;Irwin King,"Contextual bandits with linear payoffs, which are also known as linear bandits, provide a powerful alternative for solving practical problems of sequential decisions, e. g. , online advertisements. In the era of big data, contextual data usually tend to be high-dimensional, which leads to new challenges for traditional linear bandits mostly designed for the setting of low-dimensional contextual data. Due to the curse of dimensionality, there are two challenges in most of the current bandit algorithms: the first is high time-complexity; and the second is extreme large upper regret bounds with high-dimensional data. In this paper, in order to attack the above two challenges effectively, we develop an algorithm of Contextual Bandits via RAndom Projection( CBRAP) in the setting of linear payoffs, which works especially for high-dimensional contextual data. The proposed CBRAP algorithm is time-efficient and flexible, because it enables players to choose an arm in a low-dimensional space, and relaxes the sparsity assumption of constant number of non-zero components in previous work. Besides, we prove an upper regret bound for the proposed algorithm, which is associated with reduced dimensions. By comparing with three benchmark algorithms, we demonstrate improved performance on cumulative payoffs of CBRAP during its sequential decisions on both synthetic and real-world datasets, as well as its superior time-efficiency.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10888,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10888,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Centralized versus Personalized Commitments and Their Influence on Cooperation in Group Interactions,The Anh Han;Luis Moniz Pereira;Luis A. Martinez-Vaquero;Tom Lenaerts,"Before engaging in a group venture agents may seek commitments from other members in the group and, based on the level of participation( i. e. the number of actually committed participants) , decide whether it is worth joining the venture. Alternatively, agents can delegate this costly process to a( beneficent or non-costly) third-party, who helps seek commitments from the agents. Using methods from Evolutionary Game Theory, this paper shows that, in the context of Public Goods Game, much higher levels of cooperation can be achieved through such centralized commitment management. It provides a more efficient mechanism for dealing with commitment free-riders, those who are not willing to bear the cost of arranging commitments whilst enjoying the benefits provided by the paying commitment proposers. We show that the participation level plays a crucial role in the decision of whether an agreement should be formed; namely, it needs to be more strict in terms of the level of participation required from players of the centralized system for the agreement to be formed; however, once it is done right, it is much more beneficial in terms of the level of cooperation and social welfare achieved. In short, our analysis provides important insights for the design of multi-agent systems that rely on commitments to monitor agents cooperative behavior.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10704,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10704,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CertiFair: A Framework for Certified Global Fairness of Neural Networks,Haitham Khedr;Yasser Shoukry,"We consider the problem of whether a Neural Network( NN) model satisfies global individual fairness. Individual Fairness( defined in( Dwork et al. 2012) ) suggests that similar individuals with respect to a certain task are to be treated similarly by the decision model. In this work, we have two main objectives. The first is to construct a verifier which checks whether the fairness property holds for a given NN in a classification task or provides a counterexample if it is violated, i. e. , the model is fair if all similar individuals are classified the same, and unfair if a pair of similar individuals are classified differently. To that end, we construct a sound and complete verifier that verifies global individual fairness properties of ReLU NN classifiers using distance-based similarity metrics. The second objective of this paper is to provide a method for training provably fair NN classifiers from unfair( biased) data. We propose a fairness loss that can be used during training to enforce fair outcomes for similar individuals. We then provide provable bounds on the fairness of the resulting NN. We run experiments on commonly used fairness datasets that are publicly available and we show that global individual fairness can be improved by 96 % without a significant drop in test accuracy.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25994,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.25994,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Certifying Fairness of Probabilistic Circuits,Nikil Roashan Selvam;Guy Van den Broeck;YooJung Choi,"With the increased use of machine learning systems for decision making, questions about the fairness properties of such systems start to take center stage. Most existing work on algorithmic fairness assume complete observation of features at prediction time, as is the case for popular notions like statistical parity and equal opportunity. However, this is not sufficient for models that can make predictions with partial observation as we could miss patterns of bias and incorrectly certify a model to be fair. To address this, a recently introduced notion of fairness asks whether the model exhibits any discrimination pattern, in which an individual\'97characterized by( partial) feature observations\'97receives vastly different decisions merely by disclosing one or more sensitive attributes such as gender and race. By explicitly accounting for partial observations, this provides a much more fine-grained notion of fairness. In this paper, we propose an algorithm to search for discrimination patterns in a general class of probabilistic models, namely probabilistic circuits. Previously, such algorithms were limited to naive Bayes classifiers which make strong independence assumptions; by contrast, probabilistic circuits provide a unifying framework for a wide range of tractable probabilistic models and can even be compiled from certain classes of Bayesian networks and probabilistic programs, making our method much more broadly applicable. Furthermore, for an unfair model, it may be useful to quickly find discrimination patterns and distill them for better interpretability. As such, we also propose a sampling-based approach to more efficiently mine discrimination patterns, and introduce new classes of patterns such as minimal, maximal, and Pareto optimal patterns that can effectively summarize exponentially many discrimination patterns.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26447,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26447,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning Under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Certifying Top-Down Decision-DNNF Compilers,Florent Capelli;Jean-Marie Lagniez;Pierre Marquis,"Certifying the output of tools solving complex problems so as to ensure the correctness of the results they provide is of tremendous importance. Despite being widespread for SAT-solvers, this level of exigence has not yet percolated for tools solving more complex tasks, such as model counting or knowledge compilation. In this paper, the focus is laid on a general family of top-down Decision-DNNF compilers. We explain how those compilers can be tweaked so as to output certifiable Decision-DNNF circuits, which are mainly standard Decision-DNNF circuits decorated by annotations serving as certificates. We describe a polynomial-time checker for testing whether a given CNF\'a0formula is equivalent or not to a given certifiable Decision-DNNF circuit. Finally, leveraging a modified version of the compiler d4 for generating certifiable Decision-DNNF circuits and an implementation of the checker, we present the results of an empirical evaluation that has been conducted for assessing how large are in practice certifiable Decision-DNNF circuits, and how much time is needed to compute and to check such circuits.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16776,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16776,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CGS-Mask: Making Time Series Predictions Intuitive for All,Feng Lu;Wei Li;Yifei Sun;Cheng Song;Yufei Ren;Albert Y. Zomaya,"Artificial intelligence( AI) has immense potential in time series prediction, but most explainable tools have limited capabilities in providing a systematic understanding of important features over time. These tools typically rely on evaluating a single time point, overlook the time ordering of inputs, and neglect the time-sensitive nature of time series applications. These factors make it difficult for users, particularly those without domain knowledge, to comprehend AI model decisions and obtain meaningful explanations. We propose CGS-Mask, a post-hoc and model-agnostic cellular genetic strip mask-based saliency approach to address these challenges. CGS-Mask uses consecutive time steps as a cohesive entity to evaluate the impact of features on the final prediction, providing binary and sustained feature importance scores over time. Our algorithm optimizes the mask population iteratively to obtain the optimal mask in a reasonable time. We evaluated CGS-Mask on synthetic and real-world datasets, and it outperformed state-of-the-art methods in elucidating the importance of features over time. According to our pilot user study via a questionnaire survey, CGS-Mask is the most effective approach in presenting easily understandable time series prediction results, enabling users to comprehend the decision-making process of AI models with ease.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29325,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29325,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Choices Are Not Independent: Stackelberg Security Games with Nested Quantal Response Models,Tien Mai;Arunesh Sinha,"The quantal response( QR) model is widely used in Stackelberg security games( SSG) to model a bounded rational adversary. The QR model is a model of human response from among a large variety of prominent models known as discrete choice models. QR is the simplest type of discrete choice models and does not capture commonly observed phenomenon such as correlation among choices. We introduce the nested QR adversary model( based on nested logit model in discrete choice theory) in SSG which addresses shortcoming of the QR model. We present tractable approximation of the resulting equilibrium problem with nested QR adversary. We do so by deriving an interesting property of the equilibrium problem, namely a loosely coupled split into nested problems that mirrors the nested decision making by the adversary in the nested QR model. We show that each separate nested problem can be approximated efficiently and that the loosely coupled overall problem can be solved approximately by formulating it as a discretized version of a continuous dynamic program. Finally, we conduct experiments that show the scalability and parallelizability of our approach, as well as advantages of the nested QR model.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20448,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20448,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ClaimEval: Integrated and Flexible Framework for Claim Evaluation Using Credibility of Sources,Mehdi Samadi;Partha Talukdar;Manuela Veloso;Manuel Blum,"The World Wide Web( WWW) has become a rapidly growing platform consisting of numerous sources which provide supporting or contradictory information about claims( e. g. , Chicken meat is healthy). In order to decide whether a claim is true or false, one needs to analyze content of different sources of information on the Web, measure credibility of information sources, and aggregate all these information. This is a tedious process and the Web search engines address only part of the overall problem, viz. , producing only a list of relevant sources. In this paper, we present ClaimEval, a novel and integrated approach which given a set of claims to validate, extracts a set of pro and con arguments from the Web information sources, and jointly estimates credibility of sources and correctness of claims. ClaimEval uses Probabilistic Soft Logic( PSL) , resulting in a flexible and principled framework which makes it easy to state and incorporate different forms of prior-knowledge. Through extensive experiments on real-world datasets, we demonstrate ClaimEval\'92s capability in determining validity of a set of claims, resulting in improved accuracy compared to state-of-the-art baselines.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9996,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9996,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Clairvoyant Restarts in Branch-and-Bound Search Using Online Tree-Size Estimation,Daniel Anderson;Gregor Hendel;Pierre Le Bodic;Merlin Viernickel,"We propose a simple and general online method to measure the search progress within the Branch-and-Bound algorithm, from which we estimate the size of the remaining search tree. We then show how this information can help solvers algorithmically at runtime by designing a restart strategy for MixedInteger Programming( MIP) solvers that decides whether to restart the search based on the current estimate of the number of remaining nodes in the tree. We refer to this type of algorithm as clairvoyant. Our clairvoyant restart strategy outperforms a state-of-the-art solver on a large set of publicly available MIP benchmark instances. It is implemented in the MIP solver SCIP and will be available in future releases.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3944,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011427,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Classification with Costly Features Using Deep Reinforcement Learning,Jarom\'edr Janisch;Tom\'e1\'9a Pevn\'fd;Viliam Lis\'fd,"We study a classification problem where each feature can be acquired for a cost and the goal is to optimize a trade-off between the expected classification error and the feature cost. We revisit a former approach that has framed the problem as a sequential decision-making problem and solved it by Q-learning with a linear approximation, where individual actions are either requests for feature values or terminate the episode by providing a classification decision. On a set of eight problems, we demonstrate that by replacing the linear approximation with neural networks the approach becomes comparable to the state-of-the-art algorithms developed specifically for this problem. The approach is flexible, as it can be improved with any new reinforcement learning enhancement, it allows inclusion of pre-trained high-performance classifier, and unlike prior art, its performance is robust across all evaluated datasets.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4287,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013959,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Classification with Strategically Withheld Data,Anilesh K. Krishnaswamy;Haoming Li;David Rein;Hanrui Zhang;Vincent Conitzer,"Machine learning techniques can be useful in applications such as credit approval and college admission. However, to be classified more favorably in such contexts, an agent may decide to strategically withhold some of her features, such as bad test scores. This is a missing data problem with a twist: which data is missing depends on the chosen classifier, because the specific classifier is what may create the incentive to withhold certain feature values. We address the problem of training classifiers that are robust to this behavior. We design three classification methods: MINCUT, Hill-Climbing( HC) and Incentive-Compatible Logistic Regression( IC-LR). We show that MINCUT is optimal when the true distribution of data is fully known. However, it can produce complex decision boundaries, and hence be prone to overfitting in some cases. Based on a characterization of truthful classifiers( i. e. , those that give no incentive to strategically hide features) , we devise a simpler alternative called HC which consists of a hierarchical ensemble of out-of-the-box classifiers, trained using a specialized hill-climbing procedure which we show to be convergent. For several reasons, MINCUT and HC are not effective in utilizing a large number of complementarily informative features. To this end, we present IC-LR, a modification of Logistic Regression that removes the incentive to strategically drop features. We also show that our algorithms perform well in experiments on real-world data sets, and present insights into their relative performance in different settings.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16694,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16694,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CLIPSyntel: CLIP and LLM Synergy for Multimodal Question Summarization in Healthcare,Akash Ghosh;Arkadeep Acharya;Raghav Jain;Sriparna Saha;Aman Chadha;Setu Sinha,"In the era of modern healthcare, swiftly generating medical question summaries is crucial for informed and timely patient care. Despite the increasing complexity and volume of medical data, existing studies have focused solely on text-based summarization, neglecting the integration of visual information. Recognizing the untapped potential of combining textual queries with visual representations of medical conditions, we introduce the Multimodal Medical Question Summarization( MMQS) Dataset. This dataset, a major contribution of our work, pairs medical queries with visual aids, facilitating a richer and more nuanced understanding of patient needs. We also propose a framework, utilizing the power of Contrastive Language Image Pretraining( CLIP) and Large Language Models( LLMs) , consisting of four modules that identify medical disorders, generate relevant context, filter medical concepts, and craft visually aware summaries. Our comprehensive framework harnesses the power of CLIP, a multimodal foundation model, and various general-purpose LLMs, comprising four main modules: the medical disorder identification module, the relevant context generation module, the context filtration module for distilling relevant medical concepts and knowledge, and finally, a general-purpose LLM to generate visually aware medical question summaries. Leveraging our MMQS dataset, we showcase how visual cues from images enhance the generation of medically nuanced summaries. This multimodal approach not only enhances the decision-making process in healthcare but also fosters a more nuanced understanding of patient queries, laying the groundwork for future research in personalized and responsive medical care. Disclaimer: The article features graphic medical imagery, a result of the subjects inherent requirements.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30206,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30206,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CoCoX: Generating Conceptual and Counterfactual Explanations via Fault-Lines,Arjun Akula;Shuai Wang;Song-Chun Zhu,"We present CoCoX( short for Conceptual and Counterfactual Explanations) , a model for explaining decisions made by a deep convolutional neural network( CNN). In Cognitive Psychology, the factors( or semantic-level features) that humans zoom in on when they imagine an alternative to a model prediction are often referred to as fault-lines. Motivated by this, our CoCoX model explains decisions made by a CNN using fault-lines. Specifically, given an input image I for which a CNN classification model M predicts class cpred, our fault-line based explanation identifies the minimal semantic-level features( e. g. , stripes on zebra, pointed ears of dog) , referred to as explainable concepts, that need to be added to or deleted from I in order to alter the classification category of I by M to another specified class calt. We argue that, due to the conceptual and counterfactual nature of fault-lines, our CoCoX explanations are practical and more natural for both expert and non-expert users to understand the internal workings of complex deep learning models. Extensive quantitative and qualitative experiments verify our hypotheses, showing that CoCoX significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art explainable AI models. Our implementation is available at https://github. com/arjunakula/CoCoX",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5643,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5643,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Coevolutionary Algorithm for Building Robust Decision Trees under Minimax Regret,Adam \uc0\u379 ychowski;Andrew Perrault;Jacek Ma\u324 dziuk,"In recent years, there has been growing interest in developing robust machine learning( ML) models that can withstand adversarial attacks, including one of the most widely adopted, efficient, and interpretable ML algorithms\'97decision trees( DTs). This paper proposes a novel coevolutionary algorithm( CoEvoRDT) designed to create robust DTs capable of handling noisy high-dimensional data in adversarial contexts. Motivated by the limitations of traditional DT algorithms, we leverage adaptive coevolution to allow DTs to evolve and learn from interactions with perturbed input data. CoEvoRDT alternately evolves competing populations of DTs and perturbed features, enabling construction of DTs with desired properties. CoEvoRDT is easily adaptable to various target metrics, allowing the use of tailored robustness criteria such as minimax regret. Furthermore, CoEvoRDT has potential to improve the results of other state-of-the-art methods by incorporating their outcomes( DTs they produce) into the initial population and optimize them in the process of coevolution. Inspired by the game theory, CoEvoRDT utilizes mixed Nash equilibrium to enhance convergence. The method is tested on 20 popular datasets and shows superior performance compared to 4 state-of-the-art algorithms. It outperformed all competing methods on 13 datasets with adversarial accuracy metrics, and on all 20 considered datasets with minimax regret. Strong experimental results and flexibility in choosing the error measure make CoEvoRDT a promising approach for constructing robust DTs in real-world applications.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30188,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30188,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CoLAL: Co-learning Active Learning for Text Classification,Linh Le;Genghong Zhao;Xia Zhang;Guido Zuccon;Gianluca Demartini,"In the machine learning field, the challenge of effectively learning with limited data has become increasingly crucial. Active Learning( AL) algorithms play a significant role in this by enhancing model performance. We introduce a novel AL algorithm, termed Co-learning( CoLAL) , designed to select the most diverse and representative samples within a training dataset. This approach utilizes noisy labels and predictions made by the primary model on unlabeled data. By leveraging a probabilistic graphical model, we combine two multi-class classifiers into a binary one. This classifier determines if both the main and the peer models agree on a prediction. If they do, the unlabeled sample is assumed to be easy to classify and is thus not beneficial to increase the target models performance. We prioritize data that represents the unlabeled set without overlapping decision boundaries. The discrepancies between these boundaries can be estimated by the probability that two models result in the same prediction. Through theoretical analysis and experimental validation, we reveal that the integration of noisy labels into the peer model effectively identifies target models potential inaccuracies. We evaluated the CoLAL method across seven benchmark datasets: four text datasets( AGNews, DBPedia, PubMed, SST-2) and text-based state-of-the-art( SOTA) baselines, and three image datasets( CIFAR100, MNIST, OpenML-155) and computer vision SOTA baselines. The results show that our CoLAL method significantly outperforms existing SOTA in text-based AL, and is competitive with SOTA image-based AL techniques.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29235,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29235,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Collective Intelligence in Human-AI Teams: A Bayesian Theory of Mind Approach,Samuel Westby;Christoph Riedl,"We develop a network of Bayesian agents that collectively model the mental states of teammates from the observed communication. Using a generative computational approach to cognition, we make two contributions. First, we show that our agent could generate interventions that improve the collective intelligence of a human-AI team beyond what humans alone would achieve. Second, we develop a real-time measure of humans theory of mind ability and test theories about human cognition. We use data collected from an online experiment in which 145 individuals in 29 human-only teams of five communicate through a chat-based system to solve a cognitive task. We find that humans( a) struggle to fully integrate information from teammates into their decisions, especially when communication load is high, and( b) have cognitive biases which lead them to underweight certain useful, but ambiguous, information. Our theory of mind ability measure predicts both individualand team-level performance. Observing teams first 25% of messages explains about 8% of the variation in final team performance, a 170% improvement compared to the current state of the art.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25755,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25755,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Collective Multiagent Sequential Decision Making Under Uncertainty,Duc Thien Nguyen;Akshat Kumar;Hoong Chuin Lau,"Multiagent sequential decision making has seen rapid progress with formal models such as decentralized MDPs and POMDPs. However, scalability to large multiagent systems and applicability to real world problems remain limited. To address these challenges, we study multiagent planning problems where the collective behavior of a population of agents affects the joint-reward and environment dynamics. Our work exploits recent advances in graphical models for modeling and inference with a population of individuals such as collective graphical models and the notion of finite partial exchangeability in lifted inference. We develop a collective decentralized MDP model where policies can be computed based on counts of agents in different states. As the policy search space over counts is combinatorial, we develop a sampling based framework that can compute open and closed loop policies. Comparisons with previous best approaches on synthetic instances and a real world taxi dataset modeling supply-demand matching show that our approach significantly outperforms them w. r. t. solution quality.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10708,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10708,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Combating Unknown Bias with Effective Bias-Conflicting Scoring and Gradient Alignment,Bowen Zhao;Chen Chen;Qian-Wei Wang;Anfeng He;Shu-Tao Xia,"Models notoriously suffer from dataset biases which are detrimental to robustness and generalization. The identify-emphasize paradigm shows a promising effect in dealing with unknown biases. However, we find that it is still plagued by two challenges: A, the quality of the identified bias-conflicting samples is far from satisfactory; B, the emphasizing strategies just yield suboptimal performance. In this work, for challenge A, we propose an effective bias-conflicting scoring method to boost the identification accuracy with two practical strategies --- peer-picking and epoch-ensemble. For challenge B, we point out that the gradient contribution statistics can be a reliable indicator to inspect whether the optimization is dominated by bias-aligned samples. Then, we propose gradient alignment, which employs gradient statistics to balance the contributions of the mined bias-aligned and bias-conflicting samples dynamically throughout the learning process, forcing models to leverage intrinsic features to make fair decisions. Experiments are conducted on multiple datasets in various settings, demonstrating that the proposed solution can alleviate the impact of unknown biases and achieve state-of-the-art performance.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25466,10.1609/aaai.v37i3.25466,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Combining Experts\'92 Causal Judgments,Dalal Alrajeh;Hana Chockler;Joseph Halpern,"Consider a policymaker who wants to decide which intervention to perform in order to change a currently undesirable situation. The policymaker has at her disposal a team of experts, each with their own understanding of the causal dependencies between different factors contributing to the outcome. The policymaker has varying degrees of confidence in the experts\'92 opinions. She wants to combine their opinions in order to decide on the most effective intervention. We formally define the notion of an effective intervention, and then consider how experts\'92 causal judgments can be combined in order to determine the most effective intervention. We define a notion of two causal models being compatible, and show how compatible causal models can be combined. We then use it as the basis for combining experts causal judgments. We illustrate our approach on a number of real-life examples.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12112,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12112,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Combining Machine Learning and Queueing Theory for Data-Driven Incarceration-Diversion Program Management,Bingxuan Li;Antonio Castellanos;Pengyi Shi;Amy Ward,"Incarceration-diversion programs have proven effective in reducing recidivism. Accurate prediction of the number of individuals with different characteristics in the program and their program outcomes based on given eligibility criteria is crucial for successful implementation, because this prediction serves as the foundation for determining the appropriate program size and the consequent staffing requirements. However, this task poses challenges due to the complexities arising from varied outcomes and lengths-of-stay for the diverse individuals in incarceration-diversion programs. In collaboration with an Illinois government agency, we develop a framework to address these issues. Our framework combines ML and queueing model simulation, providing accurate predictions for the program census and interpretable insights into program dynamics and the impact of different decisions in counterfactual scenarios. Additionally, we deploy a user-friendly web app beta-version that allows program managers to visualize census data by counties and race groups. We showcase two decision support use cases: Changing program admission criteria and launching similar programs in new counties.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30330,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30330,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Combining Reinforcement Learning and Constraint Programming for Combinatorial Optimization,Quentin Cappart;Thierry Moisan;Louis-Martin Rousseau;Isabeau Pr\'e9mont-Schwarz;Andre A. Cire,"Combinatorial optimization has found applications in numerous fields, from aerospace to transportation planning and economics. The goal is to find an optimal solution among a finite set of possibilities. The well-known challenge one faces with combinatorial optimization is the state-space explosion problem: the number of possibilities grows exponentially with the problem size, which makes solving intractable for large problems. In the last years, deep reinforcement learning( DRL) has shown its promise for designing good heuristics dedicated to solve NP-hard combinatorial optimization problems. However, current approaches have an important shortcoming: they only provide an approximate solution with no systematic ways to improve it or to prove optimality. In another context, constraint programming( CP) is a generic tool to solve combinatorial optimization problems. Based on a complete search procedure, it will always find the optimal solution if we allow an execution time large enough. A critical design choice, that makes CP non-trivial to use in practice, is the branching decision, directing how the search space is explored. In this work, we propose a general and hybrid approach, based on DRL and CP, for solving combinatorial optimization problems. The core of our approach is based on a dynamic programming formulation, that acts as a bridge between both techniques. We experimentally show that our solver is efficient to solve three challenging problems: the traveling salesman problem with time windows, the 4-moments portfolio optimization problem, and the 0-1 knapsack problem. Results obtained show that the framework introduced outperforms the stand-alone RL and CP solutions, while being competitive with industrial solvers.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16484,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16484,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Comparing Population Means Under Local Differential Privacy: With Significance and Power,Bolin Ding;Harsha Nori;Paul Li;Joshua Allen,"A statistical hypothesis test determines whether a hypothesis should be rejected based on samples from populations. In particular, randomized controlled experiments( or A/B testing) that compare population means using, e. g. , t-tests, have been widely deployed in technology companies to aid in making data-driven decisions. Samples used in these tests are collected from users and may contain sensitive information. Both the data collection and the testing process may compromise individuals\'92 privacy. In this paper, we study how to conduct hypothesis tests to compare population means while preserving privacy. We use the notation of local differential privacy( LDP) , which has recently emerged as the main tool to ensure each individual\'92s privacy without the need of a trusted data collector. We propose LDP tests that inject noise into every user\'92s data in the samples before collecting them( so users do not need to trust the data collector) , and draw conclusions with bounded type-I( significance level) and type-II errors( 1 - power). Our approaches can be extended to the scenario where some users require LDP while some are willing to provide exact data. We report experimental results on real-world datasets to verify the effectiveness of our approaches.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11301,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11301,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Compatibility Family Learning for Item Recommendation and Generation,Yong-Siang Shih;Kai-Yueh Chang;Hsuan-Tien Lin;Min Sun,"Compatibility between items, such as clothes and shoes, is a major factor among customers purchasing decisions. However, learning compatibility is challenging due to( 1) broader notions of compatibility than those of similarity, ( 2) the asymmetric nature of compatibility, and( 3) only a small set of compatible and incompatible items are observed. We propose an end-to-end trainable system to embed each item into a latent vector and project a query item into K compatible prototypes in the same space. These prototypes reflect the broad notions of compatibility. We refer to both the embedding and prototypes as Compatibility Family. In our learned space, we introduce a novel Projected Compatibility Distance( PCD) function which is differentiable and ensures diversity by aiming for at least one prototype to be close to a compatible item, whereas none of the prototypes are close to an incompatible item. We evaluate our system on a toy dataset, two Amazon product datasets, and Polyvore outfit dataset. Our method consistently achieves state-of-the-art performance. Finally, we show that we can visualize the candidate compatible prototypes using a Metric-regularized Conditional Generative Adversarial Network( MrCGAN) , where the input is a projected prototype and the output is a generated image of a compatible item. We ask human evaluators to judge the relative compatibility between our generated images and images generated by CGANs conditioned directly on query items. Our generated images are significantly preferred, with roughly twice the number of votes as others.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11839,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11839,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Competing for Resources: Estimating Adversary Strategy for Effective Plan Generation,Luk\'e1\'9a Chrpa;Pavel Ryt\'ed\uc0\u345 ;Rostislav Hor\u269 \'edk;Stefan Edelkamp,"Effective decision making while competing for limited resources in adversarial environments is important for many real-world applications( e. g. two Taxi companies competing for customers). Decision-making techniques such as Automated planning have to take into account possible actions of adversary( or competing) agents. That said, the agent should know what the competitor will likely do and then generate its plan accordingly. In this paper we propose a novel approach for estimating strategies of the adversary( or the competitor) , sampling its actions that might hinder agents goals by interfering with the agents actions. The estimated competitor strategies are used in plan generation such that agents actions have to be applied prior to the ones of the competitor, whose estimated times dictate the deadlines. We empirically evaluate our approach leveraging sampling of competitors actions by comparing it to the naive approach optimising the make-span( not taking the competing agent into account at all) and to Nash Equilibrium( mixed) strategies.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21205,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21205,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Competing with Humans at Fantasy Football: Team Formation in Large Partially-Observable Domains,Tim Matthews;Sarvapali Ramchurn;Georgios Chalkiadakis,"We present the first real-world benchmark for sequentially-optimal team formation, working within the framework of a class of online football prediction games known as Fantasy Football. We model the problem as a Bayesian reinforcement learning one, where the action space is exponential in the number of players and where the decision makers beliefs are over multiple characteristics of each footballer. We then exploit domain knowledge to construct computationally tractable solution techniques in order to build a competitive automated Fantasy Football manager. Thus, we are able to establish the baseline performance in this domain, even without complete information on footballers performances( accessible to human managers) , showing that our agent is able to rank at around the top percentile when pitched against 2. 5M human players.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8259,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8259,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Competition among Pairwise Lottery Contests,Xiaotie Deng;Hangxin Gan;Ningyuan Li;Weian Li;Qi Qi,"We investigate a two-stage competitive model involving multiple contests. In this model, each contest designer chooses two participants from a pool of candidate contestants and determines the biases. Contestants strategically distribute their efforts across various contests within their budget. We first show the existence of a pure strategy Nash equilibrium( PNE) for the contestants, and propose a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme to compute an approximate PNE. In the scenario where designers simultaneously decide the participants and biases, the subgame perfect equilibrium( SPE) may not exist. Nonetheless, when designers decisions are made in two substages, the existence of SPE is established. In the scenario where designers can hold multiple contests, we show that the SPE always exists under mild conditions and can be computed efficiently.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28823,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28823,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Competitive Analysis for Two-Level Ski-Rental Problem,Binghan Wu;Wei Bao;Dong Yuan,"In this paper, we study a two-level ski-rental problem. There are multiple commodities, each one can be \'93rented\'94( paying for on-demand usage) or \'93purchased\'94( paying for life-time usage). There is also a combo purchase available so that all commodities can be purchased as a combo. Since the usages of the commodities in future are not known in advance, to minimize the overall cost, we design an online algorithm to decide if we rent a commodity, purchase a commodity, or make a combo purchase. We first propose a deterministic online algorithm. It can achieve 3 competitive ratio, which is optimal and tight. Next, we further propose a randomized online algorithm, leading to a e^\uc0\u963 /( e^\u963 -1) competitive ratio, where \u963  is the ratio between the price of a single commodity and the price of combo purchase. Finally, we apply simulation to verify the theoretical competitive ratios and evaluate the actual performance against benchmarks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17429,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17429,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Compiling Bayesian Network Classifiers into Decision Graphs,Andy Shih;Arthur Choi;Adnan Darwiche,"We propose an algorithm for compiling Bayesian network classifiers into decision graphs that mimic the input and output behavior of the classifiers. In particular, we compile Bayesian network classifiers into ordered decision graphs, which are tractable and can be exponentially smaller in size than decision trees. This tractability facilitates reasoning about the behavior of Bayesian network classifiers, including the explanation of decisions they make. Our compilation algorithm comes with guarantees on the time of compilation and the size of compiled decision graphs. We apply our compilation algorithm to classifiers from the literature and discuss some case studies in which we show how to automatically explain their decisions and verify properties of their behavior.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4797,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017966,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Compiling Graph Substructures into Sentential Decision Diagrams,Masaaki Nishino;Norihito Yasuda;Shin-ichi Minato;Masaaki Nagata,"The Zero-suppressed Sentential Decision Diagram( ZSDD) is a recentlydiscovered tractable representation of Boolean functions. ZSDD subsumes theZero-suppressed Binary Decision Diagram( ZDD) as a strict subset, andsimilar to ZDD, it can perform several useful operations like model countingand Apply operations. We propose a top-down compilation algorithmfor ZSDD that represents sets of specific graph substructures, e. g. , matchings and simple paths of a graph. We experimentally confirm that theproposed algorithm is faster than other construction methods includingbottom-up methods and top-down methods for ZDDs, and the resulting ZSDDsare smaller than ZDDs representing the same graph substructures. We alsoshow that the size constructed ZSDDs can be bounded by the branch-width of thegraph. This bound is tighter than that of ZDDs.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10697,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10697,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Complementary Attention Gated Network for Pedestrian Trajectory Prediction,Jinghai Duan;Le Wang;Chengjiang Long;Sanping Zhou;Fang Zheng;Liushuai Shi;Gang Hua,"Pedestrian trajectory prediction is crucial in many practical applications due to the diversity of pedestrian movements, such as social interactions and individual motion behaviors. With similar observable trajectories and social environments, different pedestrians may make completely different future decisions. However, most existing methods only focus on the frequent modal of the trajectory and thus are difficult to generalize to the peculiar scenario, which leads to the decline of the multimodal fitting ability when facing similar scenarios. In this paper, we propose a complementary attention gated network( CAGN) for pedestrian trajectory prediction, in which a dual-path architecture including normal and inverse attention is proposed to capture both frequent and peculiar modals in spatial and temporal patterns, respectively. Specifically, a complementary block is proposed to guide normal and inverse attention, which are then be summed with learnable weights to get attention features by a gated network. Finally, multiple trajectory distributions are estimated based on the fused spatio-temporal attention features due to the multimodality of future trajectory. Experimental results on benchmark datasets, i. e. , the ETH, and the UCY, demonstrate that our method outperforms state-of-the-art methods by 13. 8% in Average Displacement Error( ADE) and 10. 4% in Final Displacement Error( FDE). Code will be available at https://github. com/jinghaiD/CAGN",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19933,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19933,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Complexity of Abstract Argumentation under a Claim-Centric View,Wolfgang Dvo\uc0\u345 \'e1k;Stefan Woltran,"Abstract argumentation frameworks have been introduced by Dung as part of an argumentation process, where arguments and conflicts are derived from a given knowledge base. It is solely this relation between arguments that is then used in order to identify acceptable sets of arguments. A final step concerns the acceptance status of particular statements by reviewing the actual contents of the acceptable arguments. Complexity analysis of abstract argumentation so far has neglected this final step and is concerned with argument names instead of their contents, i. e. their claims. As we outline in this paper, this is not only a slight deviation but can lead to different complexity results. We, therefore, give a comprehensive complexity analysis of abstract argumentation under a claim-centric view and analyse the four main decision problems under seven popular semantics. In addition, we also address the complexity of common sub-classes and introduce novel parameterisations \'96 which exploit the nature of claims explicitly \'96 along with fixed-parameter tractability results.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4132,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012801,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Compressed Conditional Mean Embeddings for Model-Based Reinforcement Learning,Guy Lever;John Shawe-Taylor;Ronnie Stafford;Csaba Szepesvari,"We present a model-based approach to solving Markov decision processes( MDPs) in which the system dynamics are learned using conditional mean embeddings( CMEs). This class of methods comes with strong performance guarantees, and enables planning to be performed in an induced finite( pseudo-) MDP, which approximates the MDP, but can be solved exactly using dynamic programming. Two drawbacks of existing methods exist: firstly, the size of the induced finite( pseudo-) MDP scales quadratically with the amount of data used to learn the model, costing much memory and time when planning with the learned model; secondly, learning the CME itself using powerful kernel least-squares is costly \'96 a second computational bottleneck. We present an algorithm which maintains a rich kernelized CME model class, but solves both problems: firstly we demonstrate that the loss function for the CME model suggests a principled approach to compressing the induced( pseudo-) MDP, leading to faster planning, while maintaining guarantees; secondly we propose to learn the CME model itself using fast sparse-greedy kernel regression well-suited to the RL context. We demonstrate superior performance to existing methods in this class of modelbased approaches on a range of MDPs.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10304,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10304,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Compressed Decentralized Learning of Conditional Mean Embedding Operators in Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Spaces,Boya Hou;Sina Sanjari;Nathan Dahlin;Subhonmesh Bose,"Conditional mean embedding( CME) operators encode conditional probability densities within Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space( RKHS). In this paper, we present a decentralized algorithm for a collection of agents to cooperatively approximate CME over a network. Communication constraints limit the agents from sending all data to their neighbors; we only allow sparse representations of covariance operators to be exchanged among agents, compositions of which defines CME. Using a coherence-based compression scheme, we present a consensus-type algorithm that preserves the average of the approximations of the covariance operators across the network. We theoretically prove that the iterative dynamics in RKHS is stable. We then empirically study our algorithm to estimate CMEs to learn spectra of Koopman operators for Markovian dynamical systems and to execute approximate value iteration for Markov decision processes( MDPs).",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25956,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.25956,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computational Issues in Time-Inconsistent Planning,Pingzhong Tang;Yifeng Teng;Zihe Wang;Shenke Xiao;Yichong Xu,"Time-inconsistency refers to a paradox in decision making where agents exhibit inconsistent behaviors over time. Examples are procrastination where agents tend to postpone easy tasks, and abandonments where agents start a plan and quit in the middle. To capture such behaviors and to quantify inefficiency caused by such behaviors, Kleinberg and Oren( 2014) propose a graph model with a certain cost structure and initiate the study of several interesting computation problems: 1) cost ratio: the worst ratio between the actual cost of the agent and the optimal cost, over all the graph instances; 2) motivating subgraph: how to motivate the agent to reach the goal by deleting nodes and edges; 3) Intermediate rewards: how to incentivize agents to reach the goal by placing intermediate rewards. Kleinberg and Oren give partial answers to these questions, but the main problems are open. In this paper, we give answers to all three open problems. First, we show a tight upper bound of cost ratio for graphs, and confirm the conjecture by Kleinberg and Oren that Akerlof\'92s structure is indeed the worst case for cost ratio. Second, we prove that finding a motivating subgraph is NP-hard, showing that it is generally inefficient to motivate agents by deleting nodes and edges in the graph. Last but not least, we show that computing a strategy to place minimum amount of total reward is also NP-hard and we provide a 2napproximation algorithm.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11017,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11017,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computing an Efficient Exploration Basis for Learning with Univariate Polynomial Features,Chaitanya Amballa;Manu K. Gupta;Sanjay P. Bhat,"Barycentric spanners have been used as an efficient exploration basis in online linear optimization problems in a bandit framework. We characterise the barycentric spanner for decision problems in which the cost( or reward) is a polynomial in a single decision variable. Our characterisation of the barycentric spanner is two-fold: we show that the barycentric spanner under a polynomial cost function is the unique solution to a set of nonlinear algebraic equations, as well as the solution to a convex optimization problem. We provide numerical results to show that our method computes the barycentric spanner for the polynomial case significantly faster than the only other known algorithm for the purpose. As an application, we consider a dynamic pricing problem in which the revenue is an unknown polynomial function of the price. We then empirically show that the use of a barycentric spanner to initialise the prior distribution in a Thompson sampling setting leads to lower cumulative regret as compared to standard initialisations. We also illustrate the importance of barycentric spanners in adversarial settings by showing, both theoretically and empirically, that a barycentric spanner achieves the minimax value in a static adversarial linear regression problem where the learner selects the training points while an adversary selects the testing points and controls the variance of the noise corrupting the training samples",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16821,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16821,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computing Possible and Necessary Equilibrium Actions( and Bipartisan Set Winners),Markus Brill;Rupert Freeman;Vincent Conitzer,"In many multiagent environments, a designer has some, but limited control over the game being played. In this paper, we formalize this by considering incompletely specified games, in which some entries of the payoff matrices can be chosen from a specified set. We show that it is NP-hard for the designer to make this choices optimally, even in zero-sum games. In fact, it is already intractable to decide whether a given action is( potentially or necessarily) played in equilibrium. We also consider incompletely specified symmetric games in which all completions are required to be symmetric. Here, hardness holds even in weak tournament games( symmetric zero-sum games whose entries are all -1, 0, or 1) and in tournament games( symmetric zero-sum games whose non-diagonal entries are all -1 or 1). The latter result settles the complexity of the possible and necessary winner problems for a social-choice-theoretic solution concept known as the bipartisan set. We finally give a mixed-integer linear programming formulation for weak tournament games and evaluate it experimentally.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10052,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10052,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computing Quantal Stackelberg Equilibrium in Extensive-Form Games,Jakub \uc0\u268 ern\'fd;Viliam Lis\'fd;Branislav Bo\'9aansk\'fd;Bo An,"Deployments of game-theoretic solution concepts in the real world have highlighted the necessity to consider human opponents boundedly rational behavior. If subrationality is not addressed, the system can face significant losses in terms of expected utility. While there exist algorithms for computing optimal strategies to commit to when facing subrational decision-makers in one-shot interactions, these algorithms cannot be generalized for solving sequential scenarios because of the inherent curse of strategy-space dimensionality in sequential games and because humans act subrationally in each decision point separately. We study optimal strategies to commit to against subrational opponents in sequential games for the first time and make the following key contributions:( 1) we prove the problem is NP-hard in general;( 2) to enable further analysis, we introduce a non-fractional reformulation of the direct non-concave representation of the equilibrium;( 3) we identify conditions under which the problem can be approximated in polynomial time in the size of the representation;( 4) we show how an MILP can approximate the reformulation with a guaranteed bounded error, and( 5) we experimentally demonstrate that our algorithm provides higher quality results several orders of magnitude faster than a baseline method for general non-linear optimization.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16664,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16664,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computing Rational Decisions In Extensive Games With Limited Foresight,Paolo Turrini,"We introduce a class of extensive form games whereplayers might not be able to foresee the possible consequences of their decisions and form a model of theiropponents which they exploit to achieve a more profitable outcome. We improve upon existing models ofgames with limited foresight, endowing players with theability of higher order reasoning and proposing a novelsolution concept to address intuitions coming from realgame play. We analyse the resulting equilibria, devisingan effective procedure to compute them.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10015,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10015,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Conditional PSDDs: Modeling and Learning With Modular Knowledge,Yujia Shen;Arthur Choi;Adnan Darwiche,"Probabilistic Sentential Decision Diagrams( PSDDs) have been proposed for learning tractable probability distributions from a combination of data and background knowledge( in the form of Boolean constraints). In this paper, we propose a variant on PSDDs, called conditional PSDDs, for representing a family of distributions that are conditioned on the same set of variables. Conditional PSDDs can also be learned from a combination of data and( modular) background knowledge. We use conditional PSDDs to define a more structured version of Bayesian networks, in which nodes can have an exponential number of states, hence expanding the scope of domains where Bayesian networks can be applied. Compared to classical PSDDs, the new representation exploits the independencies captured by a Bayesian network to decompose the learning process into localized learning tasks, which enables the learning of better models while using less computation. We illustrate the promise of conditional PSDDs and structured Bayesian networks empirically, and by providing a case study to the modeling of distributions over routes on a map.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12119,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12119,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Condorcet Relaxation In Spatial Voting,Arnold Filtser;Omrit Filtser,"Consider a set of voters V, represented by a multiset in a metric space( X, d). The voters have to reach a decision - a point in X. A choice p\uc0\u8712  X is called a \u946 -plurality point for V, if for any other choice q\u8712  X it holds that |\{v\u8712  V \u8739  \u946 \u8901  d( p, v) \u8804  d( q, v) \}|\'a0\u8805 |V|/2. In other words, at least half of the voters ``prefer over q, when an extra factor of \u946  is taken in favor of p. For \u946 =1, this is equivalent to Condorcet winner, which rarely exists. The concept of \u946 -plurality was suggested by Aronov, de Berg, Gudmundsson, and Horton [SoCG 2020] as a relaxation of the Condorcet criterion. Denote by \u946 *( X, d) the value sup\{ \u946  \u8739  every finite multiset V in X admits a \u946 -plurality point\}\}. The parameter \u946 * determines the amount of relaxation required in order to reach a stable decision. Aronov et al. showed that for the Euclidean plane \u946 *( \u8477 2, \\\\|\u8901 \\\\|2) =\u8730 3/2, and more generally, for d-dimensional Euclidean space, 1/\u8730 d \u8804  \u946 *( \u8477 d, \\\\|\u8901 \\\\|2) \u8804 \u8730 3/2. In this paper, we show that 0. 557\u8804  \u946 *( \u8477 d, \\\\|\u8901 \\\\|2) for any dimension d( notice that 1/\u8730 d <0. 557 for any d\u8805  4). In addition, we prove that for every metric space( X, d) it holds that \u8730 2-1\u8804 \u946 *( X, d) , and show that there exists a metric space for which \u946 *( X, d) \u8804  1/2.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16681,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16681,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Congestion Graphs for Automated Time Predictions,Arik Senderovich;J. Christopher Beck;Avigdor Gal;Matthias Weidlich,"Time prediction is an essential component of decision making in various Artificial Intelligence application areas, including transportation systems, healthcare, and manufacturing. Predictions are required for efficient resource allocation and scheduling, optimized routing, and temporal action planning. In this work, we focus on time prediction in congested systems, where entities share scarce resources. To achieve accurate and explainable time prediction in this setting, features describing system congestion( e. g. , workload and resource availability) , must be considered. These features are typically gathered using process knowledge, ( i. e. , insights on the interplay of a system\'92s entities). Such knowledge is expensive to gather and may be completely unavailable. In order to automatically extract such features from data without prior process knowledge, we propose the model of congestion graphs, which are grounded in queueing theory. We show how congestion graphs are mined from raw event data using queueing theory based assumptions on the information contained in these logs. We evaluate our approach on two real-world datasets from healthcare systems where scarce resources prevail: an emergency department and an outpatient cancer clinic. Our experimental results show that using automatic generation of congestion features, we get an up to 23% improvement in terms of relative error in time prediction, compared to common baseline methods. We also detail how congestion graphs can be used to explain delays in the system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4413,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014854,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Connecting Language to Images: A Progressive Attention-Guided Network for Simultaneous Image Captioning and Language Grounding,Lingyun Song;Jun Liu;Buyue Qian;Yihe Chen,"Image captioning and visual language grounding are two important tasks for image understanding, but are seldom considered together. In this paper, we propose a Progressive Attention-Guided Network( PAGNet) , which simultaneously generates image captions and predicts bounding boxes for caption words. PAGNet mainly has two distinctive properties: i) It can progressively refine the predictive results of image captioning, by updating the attention map with the predicted bounding boxes. ii) It learns bounding boxes of the words using a weakly supervised strategy, which combines the frameworks of Multiple Instance Learning( MIL) and Markov Decision Process( MDP). By using the attention map generated in the captioning process, PAGNet significantly reduces the search space of the MDP. We conduct experiments on benchmark datasets to demonstrate the effectiveness of PAGNet and results show that PAGNet achieves the best performance.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4916,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33018885,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ConsistentEE: A Consistent and Hardness-Guided Early Exiting Method for Accelerating Language Models Inference,Ziqian Zeng;Yihuai Hong;Hongliang Dai;Huiping Zhuang;Cen Chen,"Early Exiting is one of the most popular methods to achieve efficient inference. Current early exiting methods adopt the( weighted) sum of the cross entropy loss of all internal classifiers as the objective function during training, imposing all these classifiers to predict all instances correctly. However, during inference, as long as one internal classifier predicts an instance correctly, it can accelerate without losing accuracy. Thus, there is a notable gap between training and inference. We propose ConsistentEE, an early exiting method that is consistent in training and inference. ConsistentEE formulates the early exiting process as a reinforcement learning problem. A policy network is added to decide whether an instance should exit or continue. The training objective of ConsistentEE only requires each instance to be predicted correctly by one internal classifier. Additionally, we introduce the concept Memorized Layer to measure the hardness of an instance. We incorporate the memorized layer into reward function design, which allows easy instances to focus more on acceleration while ``hard instances to focus more on accuracy. Experimental results show that our method outperforms other baselines on various natural language understanding and generation tasks using PLMs and LLMs as backbones respectively.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29922,10.1609/aaai.v38i17.29922,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constrained Prescriptive Trees via Column Generation,Shivaram Subramanian;Wei Sun;Youssef Drissi;Markus Ettl,"With the abundance of available data, many enterprises seek to implement data-driven prescriptive analytics to help them make informed decisions. These prescriptive policies need to satisfy operational constraints, and proactively eliminate rule conflicts, both of which are ubiquitous in practice. It is also desirable for them to be simple and interpretable, so they can be easily verified and implemented. Existing approaches from the literature center around constructing variants of prescriptive decision trees to generate interpretable policies. However, none of the existing methods is able to handle constraints. In this paper, we propose a scalable method that solves the constrained prescriptive policy generation problem. We introduce a novel path-based mixed-integer program( MIP) formulation which identifies a( near) optimal policy efficiently via column generation. The policy generated can be represented as a multiway-split tree which is more interpretable and informative than binary-split trees due to its shorter rules. We demonstrate the efficacy of our method with extensive computational experiments on both synthetic and real datasets.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20384,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20384,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) Of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constrained Pure Nash Equilibria in Polymatrix Games,Sunil Simon;Dominik Wojtczak,"We study the problem of checking for the existence of constrained pure Nash equilibria in a subclass of polymatrix games defined on weighted directed graphs. The payoff of a player is defined as the sum of nonnegative rational weights on incoming edges from players who picked the same strategy augmented by a fixed integer bonus for picking a given strategy. These games capture the idea of coordination within a local neighbourhood in the absence of globally common strategies. We study the decision problem of checking whether a given set of strategy choices for a subset of the players is consistent with some pure Nash equilibrium or, alternatively, with all pure Nash equilibria. We identify the most natural tractable cases and show NP or coNP-completness of these problems already for unweighted DAGs.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10599,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10599,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constrained Reinforcement Learning in Hard Exploration Problems,Pathmanathan Pankayaraj;Pradeep Varakantham,"One approach to guaranteeing safety in Reinforcement Learning is through cost constraints that are dependent on the policy. Recent works in constrained RL have developed methods that ensure constraints are enforced even at learning time while maximizing the overall value of the policy. Unfortunately, as demonstrated in our experimental results, such approaches do not perform well on complex multi-level tasks, with longer episode lengths or sparse rewards. To that end, we propose a scalable hierarchical approach for constrained RL problems that employs backward cost value functions in the context of task hierarchy and a novel intrinsic reward function in lower levels of the hierarchy to enable cost constraint enforcement. One of our key contributions is in proving that backward value functions are theoretically viable even when there are multiple levels of decision making. We also show that our new approach, referred to as Hierarchically Limited consTraint Enforcement( HiLiTE) significantly improves on state of the art Constrained RL approaches for many benchmark problems from literature. We further demonstrate that this performance( on value and constraint enforcement) clearly outperforms existing best approaches for constrained RL and hierarchical RL.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26757,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26757,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constrained Risk-Averse Markov Decision Processes,Mohamadreza Ahmadi;Ugo Rosolia;Michel D. Ingham;Richard M. Murray;Aaron D. Ames,"We consider the problem of designing policies for Markov decision processes( MDPs) with dynamic coherent risk objectives and constraints. We begin by formulating the problem in a Lagrangian framework. Under the assumption that the risk objectives and constraints can be represented by a Markov risk transition mapping, we propose an optimization-based method to synthesize Markovian policies that lower-bound the constrained risk-averse problem. We demonstrate that the formulated optimization problems are in the form of difference convex programs( DCPs) and can be solved by the disciplined convex-concave programming( DCCP) framework. We show that these results generalize linear programs for constrained MDPs with total discounted expected costs and constraints. Finally, we illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed method with numerical experiments on a rover navigation problem involving conditional-value-at-risk( CVaR) and entropic-value-at-risk( EVaR) coherent risk measures.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17393,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17393,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constraint-Based Sequential Pattern Mining with Decision Diagrams,Amin Hosseininasab;Willem-Jan van Hoeve;Andre A. Cire,"Constraint-based sequential pattern mining aims at identifying frequent patterns on a sequential database of items while observing constraints defined over the item attributes. We introduce novel techniques for constraint-based sequential pattern mining that rely on a multi-valued decision diagram( MDD) representation of the database. Specifically, our representation can accommodate multiple item attributes and various constraint types, including a number of non-monotone constraints. To evaluate the applicability of our approach, we develop an MDD-based prefix-projection algorithm and compare its performance against a typical generate-and-check variant, as well as a state-of-the-art constraint-based sequential pattern mining algorithm. Results show that our approach is competitive with or superior to these other methods in terms of scalability and efficiency.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3962,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011495,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constructing a Fair Classifier with Generated Fair Data,Taeuk Jang;Feng Zheng;Xiaoqian Wang,"Fairness in machine learning is getting rising attention as it is directly related to real-world applications and social problems. Recent methods have been explored to alleviate the discrimination between certain demographic groups that are characterized by sensitive attributes( such as race, age, or gender). Some studies have found that the data itself is biased, so training directly on the data causes unfair decision making. Models directly trained on raw data can replicate or even exacerbate bias in the prediction between demographic groups. This leads to vastly different prediction performance in different demographic groups. In order to address this issue, we propose a new approach to improve machine learning fairness by generating fair data. We introduce a generative model to generate cross-domain samples w. r. t. multiple sensitive attributes. This ensures that we can generate infinite number of samples that are balanced \\\\wrt both target label and sensitive attributes to enhance fair prediction. By training the classifier solely with the synthetic data and then transfer the model to real data, we can overcome the under-representation problem which is non-trivial since collecting real data is extremely time and resource consuming. We provide empirical evidence to demonstrate the benefit of our model with respect to both fairness and accuracy.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16965,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16965,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Constructive Preference Elicitation Over Hybrid Combinatorial Spaces,Paolo Dragone;Stefano Teso;Andrea Passerini,"Peference elicitation is the task of suggesting a highly preferred configuration to a decision maker. The preferences are typically learned by querying the user for choice feedback over pairs or sets of objects. In its constructive variant, new objects are synthesized from scratch by maximizing an estimate of the user utility over a combinatorial( possibly infinite) space of candidates. In the constructive setting, most existing elicitation techniques fail because they rely on exhaustive enumeration of the candidates. A previous solution explicitly designed for constructive tasks comes with no formal performance guarantees, and can be very expensive in( or unapplicable to) problems with non-Boolean attributes. We propose the Choice Perceptron, a Perceptron-like algorithm for learning user preferences from set-wise choice feedback over constructive domains and hybrid Boolean-numeric feature spaces. We provide a theoretical analysis on the attained regret that holds for a large class of query selection strategies, and devise a heuristic strategy that aims at optimizing the regret in practice. Finally, we demonstrate its effectiveness by empirical evaluation against existing competitors on constructive scenarios of increasing complexity.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11804,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11804,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"ConTaCT: Deciding to Communicate during Time-Critical Collaborative Tasks in Unknown, Deterministic Domains",Vaibhav Unhelkar;Julie Shah,"Communication between agents has the potential to improve team performance of collaborative tasks. However, communication is not free in most domains, requiring agents to reason about the costs and benefits of sharing information. In this work, we develop an online, decentralized communication policy, ConTaCT, that enables agents to decide whether or not to communicate during time-critical collaborative tasks in unknown, deterministic environments. Our approach is motivated by real-world applications, including the coordination of disaster response and search and rescue teams. These settings motivate a model structure that explicitly represents the world model as initially unknown but deterministic in nature, and that de-emphasizes uncertainty about action outcomes. Simulated experiments are conducted in which ConTaCT is compared to other multi-agent communication policies, and results indicate that ConTaCT achieves comparable task performance while substantially reducing communication overhead.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10123,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10123,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Contextual Pandora\'92s Box,Alexia Atsidakou;Constantine Caramanis;Evangelia Gergatsouli;Orestis Papadigenopoulos;Christos Tzamos,"Pandora\'92s Box is a fundamental stochastic optimization problem, where the decision-maker must find a good alternative, while minimizing the search cost of exploring the value of each alternative. In the original formulation, it is assumed that accurate distributions are given for the values of all the alternatives, while recent work studies the online variant of Pandora\'92s Box where the distributions are originally unknown. In this work, we study Pandora\'92s Box in the online setting, while incorporating context. At each round, we are presented with a number of alternatives each having a context, an exploration cost and an unknown value drawn from an unknown distribution that may change at every round. Our main result is a no-regret algorithm that performs comparably well against the optimal algorithm which knows all prior distributions exactly. Our algorithm works even in the bandit setting where the algorithm never learns the values of the alternatives that were not explored. The key technique that enables our result is a novel modification of the realizability condition in contextual bandits that connects a context to a sufficient statistic of each alternative\'92s distribution( its reservation value) rather than its mean.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28969,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.28969,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Contiguous Cake Cutting: Hardness Results and Approximation Algorithms,Paul W. Goldberg;Alexandros Hollender;Warut Suksompong,"We study the fair allocation of a cake, which serves as a metaphor for a divisible resource, under the requirement that each agent should receive a contiguous piece of the cake. While it is known that no finite envy-free algorithm exists in this setting, we exhibit efficient algorithms that produce allocations with low envy among the agents. We then establish NP-hardness results for various decision problems on the existence of envy-free allocations, such as when we fix the ordering of the agents or constrain the positions of certain cuts. In addition, we consider a discretized setting where indivisible items lie on a line and show a number of hardness results strengthening those from prior work.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5570,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5570,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Contrastive Balancing Representation Learning for Heterogeneous Dose-Response Curves Estimation,Minqin Zhu;Anpeng Wu;Haoxuan Li;Ruoxuan Xiong;Bo Li;Xiaoqing Yang;Xuan Qin;Peng Zhen;Jiecheng Guo;Fei Wu;Kun Kuang,"Estimating the individuals potential response to varying treatment doses is crucial for decision-making in areas such as precision medicine and management science. Most recent studies predict counterfactual outcomes by learning a covariate representation that is independent of the treatment variable. However, such independence constraints neglect much of the covariate information that is useful for counterfactual prediction, especially when the treatment variables are continuous. To tackle the above issue, in this paper, we first theoretically demonstrate the importance of the balancing and prognostic representations for unbiased estimation of the heterogeneous dose-response curves, that is, the learned representations are constrained to satisfy the conditional independence between the covariates and both of the treatment variables and the potential responses. Based on this, we propose a novel Contrastive balancing Representation learning Network using a partial distance measure, called CRNet, for estimating the heterogeneous dose-response curves without losing the continuity of treatments. Extensive experiments are conducted on synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrating that our proposal significantly outperforms previous methods.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29663,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29663,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Contribution-Aware Federated Learning for Smart Healthcare,Zelei Liu;Yuanyuan Chen;Yansong Zhao;Han Yu;Yang Liu;Renyi Bao;Jinpeng Jiang;Zaiqing Nie;Qian Xu;Qiang Yang,"Artificial intelligence( AI) is a promising technology to transform the healthcare industry. Due to the highly sensitive nature of patient data, federated learning( FL) is often leveraged to build models for smart healthcare applications. Existing deployed FL frameworks cannot address the key issues of varying data quality and heterogeneous data distributions across multiple institutions in this sector. In this paper, we report our experience developing and deploying the Contribution-Aware Federated Learning( CAFL) framework for smart healthcare. It provides an efficient and accurate approach to fairly evaluate FL participants contribution to model performance without exposing their private data, and improves the FL model training protocol to allow the best performing intermediate models to be distributed to participants for FL training. Since its deployment in Yidu Cloud Technology Inc. in March 2021, CAFL has served 8 well-established medical institutions in China to build healthcare decision support models. It can perform contribution evaluations 2. 84 times faster than the best existing approach, and has improved the average accuracy of the resulting models by 2. 62% compared to the previous system( which is significant in industrial settings). To our knowledge, it is the first contribution-aware federated learning successfully deployed in the healthcare industry.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21505,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21505,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Highly Innovative Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Coordinated Multi-Robot Exploration Under Communication Constraints Using Decentralized Markov Decision Processes,Laetitia Matignon;Laurent Jeanpierre;Abdel-Illah Mouaddib,"Recent works on multi-agent sequential decision making using decentralized partially observable Markov decision processes have been concerned with interaction-oriented resolution techniques and provide promising results. These techniques take advantage of local interactions and coordination. In this paper, we propose an approach based on an interaction-oriented resolution of decentralized decision makers. To this end, distributed value functions( DVF) have been used by decoupling the multi-agent problem into a set of individual agent problems. However existing DVF techniques assume permanent and free communication between the agents. In this paper, we extend the DVF methodology to address full local observability, limited share of information and communication breaks. We apply our new DVF in a real-world application consisting of multi-robot exploration where each robot computes locally a strategy that minimizes the interactions between the robots and maximizes the space coverage of the team even under communication constraints. Our technique has been implemented and evaluated in simulation and in real-world scenarios during a robotic challenge for the exploration and mapping of an unknown environment. Experimental results from real-world scenarios and from the challenge are given where our system was vice-champion.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8380,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8380,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robotics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Coordinated Reasoning for Cross-Lingual Knowledge Graph Alignment,Kun Xu;Linfeng Song;Yansong Feng;Yan Song;Dong Yu,"Existing entity alignment methods mainly vary on the choices of encoding the knowledge graph, but they typically use the same decoding method, which independently chooses the local optimal match for each source entity. This decoding method may not only cause the \'93many-to-one\'94 problem but also neglect the coordinated nature of this task, that is, each alignment decision may highly correlate to the other decisions. In this paper, we introduce two coordinated reasoning methods, i. e. , the Easy-to-Hard decoding strategy and joint entity alignment algorithm. Specifically, the Easy-to-Hard strategy first retrieves the model-confident alignments from the predicted results and then incorporates them as additional knowledge to resolve the remaining model-uncertain alignments. To achieve this, we further propose an enhanced alignment model that is built on the current state-of-the-art baseline. In addition, to address the many-to-one problem, we propose to jointly predict entity alignments so that the one-to-one constraint can be naturally incorporated into the alignment prediction. Experimental results show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance and our reasoning methods can also significantly improve existing baselines.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6476,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6476,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Copy That! Editing Sequences by Copying Spans,Sheena Panthaplackel;Miltiadis Allamanis;Marc Brockschmidt,"Neural sequence-to-sequence models are finding increasing use in editing of documents, for example in correcting a text document or repairing source code. In this paper, we argue that common seq2seq models( with a facility to copy single tokens) are not a natural fit for such tasks, as they have to explicitly copy each unchanged token. We present an extension of seq2seq models capable of copying entire spans of the input to the output in one step, greatly reducing the number of decisions required during inference. This extension means that there are now many ways of generating the same output, which we handle by deriving a new objective for training and a variation of beam search for inference that explicitly handles this problem. In our experiments on a range of editing tasks of natural language and source code, we show that our new model consistently outperforms simpler baselines.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17606,10.1609/aaai.v35i15.17606,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CORE: Automatic Molecule Optimization Using Copy & Refine Strategy,Tianfan Fu;Cao Xiao;Jimeng Sun,"Molecule optimization is about generating molecule Y with more desirable properties based on an input molecule X. The state-of-the-art approaches partition the molecules into a large set of substructures S and grow the new molecule structure by iteratively predicting which substructure from S to add. However, since the set of available substructures S is large, such an iterative prediction task is often inaccurate especially for substructures that are infrequent in the training data. To address this challenge, we propose a new generating strategy called \'93Copy&Refine\'94( CORE) , where at each step the generator first decides whether to copy an existing substructure from input X or to generate a new substructure, then the most promising substructure will be added to the new molecule. Combining together with scaffolding tree generation and adversarial training, CORE can significantly improve several latest molecule optimization methods in various measures including drug likeness( QED) , dopamine receptor( DRD2) and penalized LogP. We tested CORE and baselines using the ZINC database and CORE obtained up to 11% and 21% relatively improvement over the baselines on success rate on the complete test set and the subset with infrequent substructures, respectively.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5404,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5404,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Correcting Predictions for Approximate Bayesian Inference,Tomasz Ku\uc0\u347 mierczyk;Joseph Sakaya;Arto Klami,"Bayesian models quantify uncertainty and facilitate optimal decision-making in downstream applications. For most models, however, practitioners are forced to use approximate inference techniques that lead to sub-optimal decisions due to incorrect posterior predictive distributions. We present a novel approach that corrects for inaccuracies in posterior inference by altering the decision-making process. We train a separate model to make optimal decisions under the approximate posterior, combining interpretable Bayesian modeling with optimization of direct predictive accuracy in a principled fashion. The solution is generally applicable as a plug-in module for predictive decision-making for arbitrary probabilistic programs, irrespective of the posterior inference strategy. We demonstrate the approach empirically in several problems, confirming its potential.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5879,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5879,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Counterfactual Explanations for Oblique Decision Trees:Exact, Efficient Algorithms",Miguel  \'c1. Carreira-Perpi\'f1\'e1n;Suryabhan Singh Hada,"We consider counterfactual explanations, the problem of minimally adjusting features in a source input instance so that it is classified as a target class under a given classifier. This has become a topic of recent interest as a way to query a trained model and suggest possible actions to overturn its decision. Mathematically, the problem is formally equivalent to that of finding adversarial examples, which also has attracted significant attention recently. Most work on either counterfactual explanations or adversarial examples has focused on differentiable classifiers, such as neural nets. We focus on classification trees, both axis-aligned and oblique( having hyperplane splits). Although here the counterfactual optimization problem is nonconvex and nondifferentiable, we show that an exact solution can be computed very efficiently, even with high-dimensional feature vectors and with both continuous and categorical features, and demonstrate it in different datasets and settings. The results are particularly relevant for finance, medicine or legal applications, where interpretability and counterfactual explanations are particularly important.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16851,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16851,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Counterfactual Fairness Is Basically Demographic Parity,Lucas Rosenblatt;R. Teal Witter,"Making fair decisions is crucial to ethically implementing machine learning algorithms in social settings. In this work, we consider the celebrated definition of counterfactual fairness. We begin by showing that an algorithm which satisfies counterfactual fairness also satisfies demographic parity, a far simpler fairness constraint. Similarly, we show that all algorithms satisfying demographic parity can be trivially modified to satisfy counterfactual fairness. Together, our results indicate that counterfactual fairness is basically equivalent to demographic parity, which has important implications for the growing body of work on counterfactual fairness. We then validate our theoretical findings empirically, analyzing three existing algorithms for counterfactual fairness against three simple benchmarks. We find that two simple benchmark algorithms outperform all three existing algorithms---in terms of fairness, accuracy, and efficiency---on several data sets. Our analysis leads us to formalize a concrete fairness goal: to preserve the order of individuals within protected groups. We believe transparency around the ordering of individuals within protected groups makes fair algorithms more trustworthy. By design, the two simple benchmark algorithms satisfy this goal while the existing algorithms do not.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26691,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26691,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Counterfactual Learning with General Data-Generating Policies,Yusuke Narita;Kyohei Okumura;Akihiro Shimizu;Kohei Yata,"Off-policy evaluation( OPE) attempts to predict the performance of counterfactual policies using log data from a different policy. We extend its applicability by developing an OPE method for a class of both full support and deficient support logging policies in contextual-bandit settings. This class includes deterministic bandit( such as Upper Confidence Bound) as well as deterministic decision-making based on supervised and unsupervised learning. We prove that our methods prediction converges in probability to the true performance of a counterfactual policy as the sample size increases. We validate our method with experiments on partly and entirely deterministic logging policies. Finally, we apply it to evaluate coupon targeting policies by a major online platform and show how to improve the existing policy.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26113,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26113,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Counterfactual Randomization: Rescuing Experimental Studies from Obscured Confounding,Andrew Forney;Elias Bareinboim,"Randomized clinical trials( RCTs) like those conducted by the FDA provide medical practitioners with average effects of treatments, and are generally more desirable than observational studies due to their control of unobserved confounders( UCs) , viz. , latent factors that influence both treatment and recovery. However, recent results from causal inference have shown that randomization results in a subsequent loss of information about the UCs, which may impede treatment efficacy if left uncontrolled in practice( Bareinboim, Forney, and Pearl 2015). Our paper presents a novel experimental design that can be noninvasively layered atop past and future RCTs to not only expose the presence of UCs in a system, but also reveal patientand practitioner-specific treatment effects in order to improve decision-making. Applications are given to personalized medicine, second opinions in diagnosis, and employing offline results in online recommender systems.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4090,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012454,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Counting-Based Reliability Estimation for Power-Transmission Grids,Leonardo Duenas-Osorio;Kuldeep Meel;Roger Paredes;Moshe Vardi,"Modern society is increasingly reliant on the functionality of infrastructure facilities and utility services. Consequently, there has been surge of interest in the problem of quantification of system reliability, which is known to be #P-complete. Reliability also contributes to the resilience of systems, so as to effectively make them bounce back after contingencies. Despite diverse progress, most techniques to estimate system reliability and resilience remain computationally expensive. In this paper, we investigate how recent advances in hashing-based approaches to counting can be exploited to improve computational techniques for system reliability. The primary contribution of this paper is a novel framework, RelNet, that reduces the problem of computing reliability for a given network to counting the number of satisfying assignments of a \uc0\u931 11 formula, which is amenable to recent hashing-based techniques developed for counting satisfying assignments of SAT formula. We then apply RelNet to ten real world power-transmission grids across different cities in the U. S. and are able to obtain, to the best of our knowledge, the first theoretically sound a priori estimates of reliability between several pairs of nodes of interest. Such estimates will help managing uncertainty and support rational decision making for community resilience.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11178,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11178,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track on Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Counting-MLNs: Learning Relational Structure for Decision Making,Aniruddh Nath;Matthew Richardson,"Many first-order probabilistic models can be represented much more compactly using aggregation operations such as counting. While traditional statistical relational representations share factors across sets of interchangeable random variables, representations that explicitly model aggregations also exploit interchangeability of random variables within factors. This is especially useful in decision making settings, where an agent might need to reason about counts of the different types of objects it interacts with. Previous work on counting formulas in statistical relational representations has mostly focused on the problem of exact inference on an existing model. The problem of learning such models is largely unexplored. In this paper, we introduce Counting Markov Logic Networks( C-MLNs) , an extension of Markov logic networks that can compactly represent complex counting formulas. We present a structure learning algorithm for C-MLNs; we apply this algorithm to the novel problem of generalizing natural language instructions, and to relational reinforcement learning in the Crossblock domain, in which standard MLN learning algorithms fail to find any useful structure. The C-MLN policies learned from natural language instructions are compact and intuitive, and, despite requiring no instructions on test games, win 20% more Crossblock games than a state-of-the-art algorithm for following natural language instructions.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8318,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8318,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Covering Number as a Complexity Measure for POMDP Planning and Learning,Zongzhang Zhang;Michael Littman;Xiaoping Chen,"Finding a meaningful way of characterizing the difficulty of partially observable Markov decision processes( POMDPs) is a core theoretical problem in POMDP research. State-space size is often used as a proxy for POMDP difficulty, but it is a weak metric at best. Existing work has shown that the covering number for the reachable belief space, which is a set of belief points that are reachable from the initial belief point, has interesting links with the complexity of POMDP planning, theoretically. In this paper, we present empirical evidence that the covering number for the reachable belief space( or just ``covering number, for brevity) is a far better complexity measure than the state-space size for both planning and learning POMDPs on several small-scale benchmark problems. We connect the covering number to the complexity of learning POMDPs by proposing a provably convergent learning algorithm for POMDPs without reset given knowledge of the covering number.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8360,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8360,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Reasoning about Plans, Processes and Actions",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Critic-Guided Decision Transformer for Offline Reinforcement Learning,Yuanfu Wang;Chao Yang;Ying Wen;Yu Liu;Yu Qiao,"Recent advancements in offline reinforcement learning( RL) have underscored the capabilities of Return-Conditioned Supervised Learning( RCSL) , a paradigm that learns the action distribution based on target returns for each state in a supervised manner. However, prevailing RCSL methods largely focus on deterministic trajectory modeling, disregarding stochastic state transitions and the diversity of future trajectory distributions. A fundamental challenge arises from the inconsistency between the sampled returns within individual trajectories and the expected returns across multiple trajectories. Fortunately, value-based methods offer a solution by leveraging a value function to approximate the expected returns, thereby addressing the inconsistency effectively. Building upon these insights, we propose a novel approach, termed the Critic-Guided Decision Transformer( CGDT) , which combines the predictability of long-term returns from value-based methods with the trajectory modeling capability of the Decision Transformer. By incorporating a learned value function, known as the critic, CGDT ensures a direct alignment between the specified target returns and the expected returns of actions. This integration bridges the gap between the deterministic nature of RCSL and the probabilistic characteristics of value-based methods. Empirical evaluations on stochastic environments and D4RL benchmark datasets demonstrate the superiority of CGDT over traditional RCSL methods. These results highlight the potential of CGDT to advance the state of the art in offline RL and extend the applicability of RCSL to a wide range of RL tasks.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29499,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29499,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Cross-Class Feature Augmentation for Class Incremental Learning,Taehoon Kim;Jaeyoo Park;Bohyung Han,"We propose a novel class incremental learning approach, which incorporates a feature augmentation technique motivated by adversarial attacks. We employ a classifier learned in the past to complement training examples of previous tasks. The proposed approach has an unique perspective to utilize the previous knowledge in class incremental learning since it augments features of arbitrary target classes using examples in other classes via adversarial attacks on a previously learned classifier. By allowing the Cross-Class Feature Augmentations( CCFA) , each class in the old tasks conveniently populates samples in the feature space, which alleviates the collapse of the decision boundaries caused by sample deficiency for the previous tasks, especially when the number of stored exemplars is small. This idea can be easily incorporated into existing class incremental learning algorithms without any architecture modification. Extensive experiments on the standard benchmarks show that our method consistently outperforms existing class incremental learning methods by significant margins in various scenarios, especially under an environment with an extremely limited memory budget.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29216,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29216,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Cross-Constrained Progressive Inference for 3D Hand Pose Estimation with Dynamic Observer-Decision-Adjuster Networks,Zhehan Kan;Xueting Hu;Zihan Liao;Ke Yu;Zhihai He,"Generalization is very important for pose estimation, especially for 3D pose estimation where small changes in the 2D images could trigger structural changes in the 3D space. To achieve generalization, the system needs to have the capability of detecting estimation errors by double-checking the projection coherence between the 3D and 2D spaces and adapting its network inference process based on this feedback. Current pose estimation is one-time feed-forward and lacks the capability to gather feedback and adapt the inference outcome. To address this problem, we propose to explore the concept of progressive inference where the network learns an observer to continuously detect the prediction error based on constraints matching, as well as an adjuster to refine its inference outcome based on these constraints errors. Within the context of 3D hand pose estimation, we find that this observer-adjuster design is relatively unstable since the observer is operating in the 2D image domain while the adjuster is operating in the 3D domain. To address this issue, we propose to construct two sets of observers-adjusters with complementary constraints from different perspectives. They operate in a dynamic sequential manner controlled by a decision network to progressively improve the 3D pose estimation. We refer to this method as Cross-Constrained Progressive Inference( CCPI). Our extensive experimental results on FreiHAND and HO-3D benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed CCPI method is able to significantly improve the generalization capability and performance of 3D hand pose estimation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28048,10.1609/aaai.v38i3.28048,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Cross-Oilfield Reservoir Classification via Multi-Scale Sensor Knowledge Transfer,Zhi Li;Zhefeng Wang;Zhicheng Wei;Xiangguang Zhou;Yijun Wang;Baoxing Huai;Qi Liu;Nicholas Jing Yuan;Renbin Gong;Enhong Chen,"Reservoir classification is an essential step for the exploration and production process in the oil and gas industry. An appropriate automatic reservoir classification will not only reduce the manual workloads of experts, but also help petroleum companies to make optimal decisions efficiently, which in turn will dramatically reduce the costs. Existing methods mainly focused on generating reservoir classification in a single geological block but failed to work well on a new oilfield block. Indeed, how to transfer the subsurface characteristics and make accurate reservoir classification across the geological oilfields is a very important but challenging problem. To that end, in this paper, we present a focused study on the cross-oilfield reservoir classification task. Specifically, we first propose a Multi-scale Sensor Extraction( MSE) to extract the multi-scale feature representations of geological characteristics from multivariate well logs. Furthermore, we design an encoder-decoder module, Specific Feature Learning( SFL) , to take advantage of specific information of both oilfields. Then, we develop a Knowledge-Attentive Transfer( KAT) module to learn the feature-invariant representation and transfer the geological knowledge from a source oilfield to a target oilfield. Finally, we evaluate our approaches by conducting extensive experiments with real-world industrial datasets. The experimental results clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approaches to transfer the geological knowledge and generate the cross-oilfield reservoir classifications.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16545,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16545,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Crowd Counting with Decomposed Uncertainty,Min-hwan Oh;Peder Olsen;Karthikeyan Natesan Ramamurthy,"Research in neural networks in the field of computer vision has achieved remarkable accuracy for point estimation. However, the uncertainty in the estimation is rarely addressed. Uncertainty quantification accompanied by point estimation can lead to a more informed decision, and even improve the prediction quality. In this work, we focus on uncertainty estimation in the domain of crowd counting. With increasing occurrences of heavily crowded events such as political rallies, protests, concerts, etc. , automated crowd analysis is becoming an increasingly crucial task. The stakes can be very high in many of these real-world applications. We propose a scalable neural network framework with quantification of decomposed uncertainty using a bootstrap ensemble. We demonstrate that the proposed uncertainty quantification method provides additional insight to the crowd counting problem and is simple to implement. We also show that our proposed method exhibits state-of-the-art performances in many benchmark crowd counting datasets.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6852,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6852,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Crowdfunding Dynamics Tracking: A Reinforcement Learning Approach,Jun Wang;Hefu Zhang;Qi Liu;Zhen Pan;Hanqing Tao,"Recent years have witnessed the increasing interests in research of crowdfunding mechanism. In this area, dynamics tracking is a significant issue but is still under exploration. Existing studies either fit the fluctuations of time-series or employ regularization terms to constrain learned tendencies. However, few of them take into account the inherent decision-making process between investors and crowdfunding dynamics. To address the problem, in this paper, we propose a Trajectory-based Continuous Control for Crowdfunding( TC3) algorithm to predict the funding progress in crowdfunding. Specifically, actor-critic frameworks are employed to model the relationship between investors and campaigns, where all of the investors are viewed as an agent that could interact with the environment derived from the real dynamics of campaigns. Then, to further explore the in-depth implications of patterns( i. e. , typical characters) in funding series, we propose to subdivide them into fast-growing and slow-growing ones. Moreover, for the purpose of switching from different kinds of patterns, the actor component of TC3 is extended with a structure of options, which comes to the TC3-Options. Finally, extensive experiments on the Indiegogo dataset not only demonstrate the effectiveness of our methods, but also validate our assumption that the entire pattern learned by TC3-Options is indeed the U-shaped one.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6087,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6087,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CTO-SLAM: Contour Tracking for Object-Level Robust 4D SLAM,Xiaohan Li;Dong Liu;Jun Wu,"The demand for 4D( 3D+time) SLAM system is increasingly urgent, especially for decision-making and scene understanding. However, most of the existing simultaneous localization and mapping( SLAM) systems primarily assume static environments. They fail to represent dynamic scenarios due to the challenge of establishing robust long-term spatiotemporal associations in dynamic object tracking. We address this limitation and propose CTO-SLAM, a monocular and RGB-D object-level 4D SLAM system to track moving objects and estimate their motion simultaneously. In this paper, we propose contour tracking, which introduces contour features to enhance the keypoint representation of dynamic objects and coupled with pixel tracking to achieve long-term robust object tracking. Based on contour tracking, we propose a novel sampling-based object pose initialization algorithm and the following adapted bundle adjustment( BA) optimization algorithm to estimate dynamic object poses with high accuracy. The CTO-SLAM system is verified on both KITTI and VKITTI datasets. The experimental results demonstrate that our system effectively addresses cumulative errors in long-term spatiotemporal association and hence obtains substantial improvements over the state-of-the-art systems. The source code is available at https://github. com/realXiaohan/CTO-SLAM.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28899,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28899,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Intelligent Robots( ROB),AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Cumulative Difference Learning VAE for Time-Series with Temporally Correlated Inflow-Outflow,Tianchun Li;Chengxiang Wu;Pengyi Shi;Xiaoqian Wang,"Time-series generation has crucial practical significance for decision-making under uncertainty. Existing methods have various limitations like accumulating errors over time, significantly impacting downstream tasks. We develop a novel generation method, DT-VAE, that incorporates generalizable domain knowledge, is mathematically justified, and significantly outperforms existing methods by mitigating error accumulation through a cumulative difference learning mechanism. We evaluate the performance of DT-VAE on several downstream tasks using both semi-synthetic and real time-series datasets, including benchmark datasets and our newly curated COVID-19 hospitalization datasets. The COVID-19 datasets enrich existing resources for time-series analysis. Additionally, we introduce Diverse Trend Preserving( DTP) , a time-series clustering-based evaluation for direct and interpretable assessments of generated samples, serving as a valuable tool for evaluating time-series generative models.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29266,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29266,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Curriculum Temperature for Knowledge Distillation,Zheng Li;Xiang Li;Lingfeng Yang;Borui Zhao;Renjie Song;Lei Luo;Jun Li;Jian Yang,"Most existing distillation methods ignore the flexible role of the temperature in the loss function and fix it as a hyper-parameter that can be decided by an inefficient grid search. In general, the temperature controls the discrepancy between two distributions and can faithfully determine the difficulty level of the distillation task. Keeping a constant temperature, i. e. , a fixed level of task difficulty, is usually sub-optimal for a growing student during its progressive learning stages. In this paper, we propose a simple curriculum-based technique, termed Curriculum Temperature for Knowledge Distillation( CTKD) , which controls the task difficulty level during the students learning career through a dynamic and learnable temperature. Specifically, following an easy-to-hard curriculum, we gradually increase the distillation loss w. r. t. the temperature, leading to increased distillation difficulty in an adversarial manner. As an easy-to-use plug-in technique, CTKD can be seamlessly integrated into existing knowledge distillation frameworks and brings general improvements at a negligible additional computation cost. Extensive experiments on CIFAR-100, ImageNet-2012, and MS-COCO demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25236,10.1609/aaai.v37i2.25236,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Curved Representation Space of Vision Transformers,Juyeop Kim;Junha Park;Songkuk Kim;Jong-Seok Lee,"Neural networks with self-attention( a. k. a. Transformers) like ViT and Swin have emerged as a better alternative to traditional convolutional neural networks( CNNs). However, our understanding of how the new architecture works is still limited. In this paper, we focus on the phenomenon that Transformers show higher robustness against corruptions than CNNs, while not being overconfident. This is contrary to the intuition that robustness increases with confidence. We resolve this contradiction by empirically investigating how the output of the penultimate layer moves in the representation space as the input data moves linearly within a small area. In particular, we show the following. ( 1) While CNNs exhibit fairly linear relationship between the input and output movements, Transformers show nonlinear relationship for some data. For those data, the output of Transformers moves in a curved trajectory as the input moves linearly. ( 2) When a data is located in a curved region, it is hard to move it out of the decision region since the output moves along a curved trajectory instead of a straight line to the decision boundary, resulting in high robustness of Transformers. ( 3) If a data is slightly modified to jump out of the curved region, the movements afterwards become linear and the output goes to the decision boundary directly. In other words, there does exist a decision boundary near the data, which is hard to find only because of the curved representation space. This explains the underconfident prediction of Transformers. Also, we examine mathematical properties of the attention operation that induce nonlinear response to linear perturbation. Finally, we share our additional findings, regarding what contributes to the curved representation space of Transformers, and how the curvedness evolves during training.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29213,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29213,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,CUTS+: High-Dimensional Causal Discovery from Irregular Time-Series,Yuxiao Cheng;Lianglong Li;Tingxiong Xiao;Zongren Li;Jinli Suo;Kunlun He;Qionghai Dai,"Causal discovery in time-series is a fundamental problem in the machine learning community, enabling causal reasoning and decision-making in complex scenarios. Recently, researchers successfully discover causality by combining neural networks with Granger causality, but their performances degrade largely when encountering high-dimensional data because of the highly redundant network design and huge causal graphs. Moreover, the missing entries in the observations further hamper the causal structural learning. To overcome these limitations, We propose CUTS+, which is built on the Granger-causality-based causal discovery method CUTS and raises the scalability by introducing a technique called Coarse-to-fine-discovery( C2FD) and leveraging a message-passing-based graph neural network( MPGNN). Compared to previous methods on simulated, quasi-real, and real datasets, we show that CUTS+ largely improves the causal discovery performance on high-dimensional data with different types of irregular sampling.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29034,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.29034,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Cyclically Disentangled Feature Translation for Face Anti-spoofing,Haixiao Yue;Keyao Wang;Guosheng Zhang;Haocheng Feng;Junyu Han;Errui Ding;Jingdong Wang,"Current domain adaptation methods for face anti-spoofing leverage labeled source domain data and unlabeled target domain data to obtain a promising generalizable decision boundary. However, it is usually difficult for these methods to achieve a perfect domain-invariant liveness feature disentanglement, which may degrade the final classification performance by domain differences in illumination, face category, spoof type, etc. In this work, we tackle cross-scenario face anti-spoofing by proposing a novel domain adaptation method called cyclically disentangled feature translation network( CDFTN). Specifically, CDFTN generates pseudo-labeled samples that possess: 1) source domain-invariant liveness features and 2) target domain-specific content features, which are disentangled through domain adversarial training. A robust classifier is trained based on the synthetic pseudo-labeled images under the supervision of source domain labels. We further extend CDFTN for multi-target domain adaptation by leveraging data from more unlabeled target domains. Extensive experiments on several public datasets demonstrate that our proposed approach significantly outperforms the state of the art. Code and models are available at https://github. com/vis-face/CDFTN.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25443,10.1609/aaai.v37i3.25443,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dancing with Decision Diagrams: A Combined Approach to Exact Cover,Masaaki Nishino;Norihito Yasuda;Shin-ichi Minato;Masaaki Nagata,"Exact cover is the problem of finding subfamilies, S*, of a family of\'a0sets, S, over universe U, where S* forms a partition of\'a0U. It is a popular NP-hard problem appearing in a wide range of computer\'a0science studies. Knuths algorithm DLX, a backtracking-based depth-first\'a0search implemented with the data structure called dancing links, is known\'a0as state-of-the-art for finding all exact covers. We propose a method to\'a0accelerate DLX. Our method constructs a Zero-suppressed Binary Decision\'a0Diagram( ZDD) that represents the set of solutions while running\'a0depth-first search in DLX. Constructing ZDDs enables the efficient use of\'a0memo cache to speed up the search. Moreover, our method has a virtue that\'a0it outputs ZDDs; we can perform several useful operations with\'a0them. Experiments confirm that the proposed method is up to several orders\'a0of magnitude faster than DLX.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10662,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10662,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DAST: Unsupervised Domain Adaptation in Semantic Segmentation Based on Discriminator Attention and Self-Training,Fei Yu;Mo Zhang;Hexin Dong;Sheng Hu;Bin Dong;Li Zhang,"Unsupervised domain adaption has recently been used to reduce the domain shift, which would ultimately improve the performance of the semantic segmentation on unlabeled real-world data. In this paper, we follow the trend to propose a novel method to reduce the domain shift using strategies of discriminator attention and self-training. The discriminator attention strategy contains a two-stage adversarial learning process, which explicitly distinguishes the well-aligned( domain-invariant) and poorly-aligned( domain-specific) features, and then guides the model to focus on the latter. The self-training strategy adaptively improves the decision boundary of the model for the target domain, which implicitly facilitates the extraction of domain-invariant features. By combining the two strategies, we find a more effective way to reduce the domain shift. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on numerous benchmark datasets.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17285,10.1609/aaai.v35i12.17285,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Data-Driven Structural Fire Risk Prediction for City Properties,Rupasree Dey;Alan Fern,"Fire Departments conduct inspections to prevent fires but it is unclear how to best allocate their limited inspection resources across the properties in a city. Currently, they use their intuition and experience to decide on which properties to inspect and lack a data-driven approach that could lead to a more principled use of inspection resources. The main contribution of this paper is to investigate such an approach, based on machine learning for predicting a fire risk score for properties in a city based on historical fire-incident data. These scores can then be used to help prioritize inspection resources toward higher-risk properties. We present a case study using data from a South Dakota fire department which contains information about properties in a city along with records of fire inincidents. We use this data consisting of more than 72, 000 properties to train a machine learning model to predict fire risk and evaluate its ability to rank the fire risk of properties in the city. We conduct and analyze experiments with variations of XG-Boost, which is an algorithm well-suited to the challenges in application, including missing data and a highly-skewed class distribution. Our evaluation of the model-generated rankings, based on ranking metrics, shows that the model significantly outperforms random rankings and other natural baselines. We also analyze the feature importance computed for the models, which provides further insight into the model behavior. This model has been integrated into an interface for displaying the rankings across a city and is ready for beta testing.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30325,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30325,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dec-SGTS: Decentralized Sub-Goal Tree Search for Multi-Agent Coordination,Minglong Li;Zhongxuan Cai;Wenjing Yang;Lixia Wu;Yinghui Xu;Ji Wang,"Multi-agent coordination tends to benefit from efficient communication, where cooperation often happens based on exchanging information about what the agents intend to do, i. e. intention sharing. It becomes a key problem to model the intention by some proper abstraction. Currently, it is either too coarse such as final goals or too fined as primitive steps, which is inefficient due to the lack of modularity and semantics. In this paper, we design a novel multi-agent coordination protocol based on subgoal intentions, defined as the probability distribution over feasible subgoal sequences. The subgoal intentions encode macro-action behaviors with modularity so as to facilitate joint decision making at higher abstraction. Built over the proposed protocol, we present Dec-SGTS( Decentralized Sub-Goal Tree Search) to solve decentralized online multi-agent planning hierarchically and efficiently. Each agent runs Dec-SGTS asynchronously by iteratively performing three phases including local sub-goal tree search, local subgoal intention update and global subgoal intention sharing. We conduct the experiments on courier dispatching problem, and the results show that Dec-SGTS achieves much better reward while enjoying a significant reduction of planning time and communication cost compared with Dec-MCTS( Decentralized Monte Carlo Tree Search).",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17345,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17345,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decentralized Monte Carlo Tree Search for Partially Observable Multi-Agent Pathfinding,Alexey Skrynnik;Anton Andreychuk;Konstantin Yakovlev;Aleksandr Panov,"The Multi-Agent Pathfinding( MAPF) problem involves finding a set of conflict-free paths for a group of agents confined to a graph. In typical MAPF scenarios, the graph and the agents starting and ending vertices are known beforehand, allowing the use of centralized planning algorithms. However, in this study, we focus on the decentralized MAPF setting, where the agents may observe the other agents only locally and are restricted in communications with each other. Specifically, we investigate the lifelong variant of MAPF, where new goals are continually assigned to the agents upon completion of previous ones. Drawing inspiration from the successful AlphaZero approach, we propose a decentralized multi-agent Monte Carlo Tree Search( MCTS) method for MAPF tasks. Our approach utilizes the agents observations to recreate the intrinsic Markov decision process, which is then used for planning with a tailored for multi-agent tasks version of neural MCTS. The experimental results show that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art learnable MAPF solvers. The source code is available at https://github. com/AIRI-Institute/mats-lp.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29703,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29703,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decentralized Planning in Stochastic Environments with Submodular Rewards,Rajiv Kumar;Pradeep Varakantham;Akshat Kumar,"Decentralized Markov Decision Process( Dec-MDP) provides a rich framework to represent cooperative decentralized and stochastic planning problems under transition uncertainty. However, solving a Dec-MDP to generate coordinated yet decentralized policies is NEXP-Hard. Researchers have made significant progress in providing approximate approaches to improve scalability with respect to number of agents. However, there has been little or no research devoted to finding guarantees on solution quality for approximate approaches considering multiple( more than 2 agents) agents. We have a similar situation with respect to the competitive decentralized planning problem and the Stochastic Game( SG) model. To address this, we identify models in the cooperative and competitive case that rely on submodular rewards, where we show that existing approximate approaches can provide strong quality guarantees( a priori, and for cooperative case also posteriori guarantees). We then provide solution approaches and demonstrate improved online guarantees on benchmark problems from the literature for the cooperative case.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10709,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10709,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decentralized Policy Gradient Descent Ascent for Safe Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,Songtao Lu;Kaiqing Zhang;Tianyi Chen;Tamer Ba\uc0\u351 ar;Lior Horesh,"This paper deals with distributed reinforcement learning problems with safety constraints. In particular, we consider that a team of agents cooperate in a shared environment, where each agent has its individual reward function and safety constraints that involve all agents joint actions. As such, the agents aim to maximize the team-average long-term return, subject to all the safety constraints. More intriguingly, no central controller is assumed to coordinate the agents, and both the rewards and constraints are only known to each agent locally/privately. Instead, the agents are connected by a peer-to-peer communication network to share information with their neighbors. In this work, we first formulate this problem as a distributed constrained Markov decision process( D-CMDP) with networked agents. Then, we propose a decentralized policy gradient( PG) method, Safe Dec-PG, to perform policy optimization based on this D-CMDP model over a network. Convergence guarantees, together with numerical results, showcase the superiority of the proposed algorithm. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first decentralized PG algorithm that accounts for the coupled safety constraints with a quantifiable convergence rate in multi-agent reinforcement learning. Finally, we emphasize that our algorithm is also novel in solving a class of decentralized stochastic nonconvex-concave minimax optimization problems, where both the algorithm design and corresponding theoretical analysis are of independent interest.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17062,10.1609/aaai.v35i10.17062,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decentralized Stochastic Multi-Player Multi-Armed Walking Bandits,Guojun Xiong;Jian Li,"Multi-player multi-armed bandit is an increasingly relevant decision-making problem, motivated by applications to cognitive radio systems. Most research for this problem focuses exclusively on the settings that players have full access to all arms and receive no reward when pulling the same arm. Hence all players solve the same bandit problem with the goal of maximizing their cumulative reward. However, these settings neglect several important factors in many real-world applications, where players have limited access to a dynamic local subset of arms( i. e. , an arm could sometimes be ``walking and not accessible to the player). To this end, this paper proposes a multi-player multi-armed walking bandits model, aiming to address aforementioned modeling issues. The goal now is to maximize the reward, however, players can only pull arms from the local subset and only collect a full reward if no other players pull the same arm. We adopt Upper Confidence Bound( UCB) to deal with the exploration-exploitation tradeoff and employ distributed optimization techniques to properly handle collisions. By carefully integrating these two techniques, we propose a decentralized algorithm with near-optimal guarantee on the regret, and can be easily implemented to obtain competitive empirical performance.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26251,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26251,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deception through Half-Truths,Andrew Estornell;Sanmay Das;Yevgeniy Vorobeychik,"Deception is a fundamental issue across a diverse array of settings, from cybersecurity, where decoys( e. g. , honeypots) are an important tool, to politics that can feature politically motivated \'93leaks\'94 and fake news about candidates. Typical considerations of deception view it as providing false information. However, just as important but less frequently studied is a more tacit form where information is strategically hidden or leaked. We consider the problem of how much an adversary can affect a principals decision by \'93half-truths\'94, that is, by masking or hiding bits of information, when the principal is oblivious to the presence of the adversary. The principals problem can be modeled as one of predicting future states of variables in a dynamic Bayes network, and we show that, while theoretically the principals decisions can be made arbitrarily bad, the optimal attack is NP-hard to approximate, even under strong assumptions favoring the attacker. However, we also describe an important special case where the dependency of future states on past states is additive, in which we can efficiently compute an approximately optimal attack. Moreover, in networks with a linear transition function we can solve the problem optimally in polynomial time.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6570,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6570,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deceptive Decision-Making under Uncertainty,Yagiz Savas;Christos K. Verginis;Ufuk Topcu,"We study the design of autonomous agents that are capable of deceiving outside observers about their intentions while carrying out tasks in stochastic, complex environments. By modeling the agents behavior as a Markov decision process, we consider a setting where the agent aims to reach one of multiple potential goals while deceiving outside observers about its true goal. We propose a novel approach to model observer predictions based on the principle of maximum entropy and to efficiently generate deceptive strategies via linear programming. The proposed approach enables the agent to exhibit a variety of tunable deceptive behaviors while ensuring the satisfaction of probabilistic constraints on the behavior. We evaluate the performance of the proposed approach via comparative user studies and present a case study on the streets of Manhattan, New York, using real travel time distributions.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20470,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20470,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deciding the Loosely Guarded Fragment and Querying Its Horn Fragment Using Resolution,Sen Zheng;Renate Schmidt,"We consider the following query answering problem: Given a Boolean conjunctive query and a theory in the Horn loosely guarded fragment, the aim is to determine whether the query is entailed by the theory. In this paper, we present a resolution decision procedure for the loosely guarded fragment, and use such a procedure to answer Boolean conjunctive queries against the Horn loosely guarded fragment. The Horn loosely guarded fragment subsumes classes of rules that are prevalent in ontology-based query answering, such as Horn ALCHOI and guarded existential rules. Additionally, we identify star queries and cloud queries, which using our procedure, can be answered against the loosely guarded fragment.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5703,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5703,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deciding Unsolvability in Temporal Planning under Action Non-Self-Overlapping,Stefan Panjkovic;Andrea Micheli;Alessandro Cimatti,"The field of Temporal Planning( TP) is receiving increasing interest for its many real-world applications. Most of the literature focuses on the TP problem of finding a plan, with algorithms that are not guaranteed to terminate when the problem admits no solution. In this paper, we present sound and complete decision procedures that address the dual problem of proving that no plan exists, which has important applications in oversubscription, model validation and optimization. We focus on the expressive and practically relevant semantics of action non-self-overlapping, recently proved to be PSPACE-complete. For this subclass, we propose two approaches: a reduction of the planning problem to model-checking of Timed Transition Systems, and a heuristic-search algorithm where temporal constraints are represented by Difference Bound Matrices. We implemented the approaches, and carried out an experimental evaluation against other state-of-the-art TP tools. On benchmarks that admit no plans, both approaches dramatically outperform the other planners, while the heuristic-search algorithm remains competitive on solvable benchmarks.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21225,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21225,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decision Support for Agent Populations in Uncertain and Congested Environments,Pradeep Varakantham;Shih-Fen Cheng;Geoff Gordon;Asrar Ahmed,"This research is motivated by large scale problems in urban transportation and labor mobility where there is congestion for resources and uncertainty in movement. In such domains, even though the individual agents do not have an identity of their own and do not explicitly interact with other agents, they effect other agents. While there has been much research in handling such implicit effects, it has primarily assumed deterministic movements of agents. We address the issue of decision support for individual agents that are identical and have involuntary movements in dynamic environments. For instance, in a taxi fleet serving a city, when a taxi is hired by a customer, its movements are uncontrolled and depend on( a) the customers requirement; and( b) the location of other taxis in the fleet. Towards addressing decision support in such problems, we make two key contributions:( a) A framework to represent the decision problem for selfish individuals in a dynamic population, where there is transitional uncertainty( involuntary movements) ; and( b) Two techniques( Fictitious Play for Symmetric Agent Populations, FP-SAP and Softmax based Flow Update, SMFU) that converge to equilibrium solutions. We show that our techniques( apart from providing equilibrium strategies) outperform \'93driver\'94 strategies with respect to overall availability of taxis and the revenue obtained by the taxi drivers. We demonstrate this on a real world data set with 8, 000 taxis and 83 zones( representing the entire area of Singapore).",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8251,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8251,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decision-Dependent Risk Minimization in Geometrically Decaying Dynamic Environments,Mitas Ray;Lillian J. Ratliff;Dmitriy Drusvyatskiy;Maryam Fazel,"This paper studies the problem of expected loss minimization given a data distribution that is dependent on the decision-makers action and evolves dynamically in time according to a geometric decay process. Novel algorithms for both the information setting in which the decision-maker has a first order gradient oracle and the setting in which they have simply a loss function oracle are introduced. The algorithms operate on the same underlying principle: the decision-maker deploys a fixed decision repeatedly over the length of an epoch, thereby allowing the dynamically changing environment to sufficiently mix before updating the decision. The iteration complexity in each of the settings is shown to match existing rates for first and zero order stochastic gradient methods up to logarithmic factors. The algorithms are evaluated on a ``semi-synthetic example using real world data from the SFpark dynamic pricing pilot study; it is shown that the announced prices result in an improvement for the institutions objective( target occupancy) , while achieving an overall reduction in parking rates.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20780,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20780,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decision-Guided Weighted Automata Extraction from Recurrent Neural Networks,Xiyue Zhang;Xiaoning Du;Xiaofei Xie;Lei Ma;Yang Liu;Meng Sun,"Recurrent Neural Networks( RNNs) have demonstrated their effectiveness in learning and processing sequential data( e. g. , speech and natural language). However, due to the black-box nature of neural networks, understanding the decision logic of RNNs is quite challenging. Some recent progress has been made to approximate the behavior of an RNN by weighted automata. They provide better interpretability, but still suffer from poor scalability. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to extracting weighted automata with the guidance of a target RNNs decision and context information. In particular, we identify the patterns of RNNs step-wise predictive decisions to instruct the formation of automata states. Further, we propose a state composition method to enhance the context-awareness of the extracted model. Our in-depth evaluations on typical RNN tasks, including language model and classification, demonstrate the effectiveness and advantage of our method over the state-of-the-arts. The evaluation results show that our method can achieve accurate approximation of an RNN even on large-scale tasks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17391,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17391,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decision-Making Context Interaction Network for Click-Through Rate Prediction,Xiang Li;Shuwei Chen;Jian Dong;Jin Zhang;Yongkang Wang;Xingxing Wang;Dong Wang,"Click-through rate( CTR) prediction is crucial in recommendation and online advertising systems. Existing methods usually model user behaviors, while ignoring the informative context which influences the user to make a click decision, e. g. , click pages and pre-ranking candidates that inform inferences about user interests, leading to suboptimal performance. In this paper, we propose a Decision-Making Context Interaction Network( DCIN) , which deploys a carefully designed Context Interaction Unit( CIU) to learn decision-making contexts and thus benefits CTR prediction. In addition, the relationship between different decision-making context sources is explored by the proposed Adaptive Interest Aggregation Unit( AIAU) to improve CTR prediction further. In the experiments on public and industrial datasets, DCIN significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. Notably, the model has obtained the improvement of CTR+2. 9%/CPM+2. 1%/GMV+1. 5% for online A/B testing and served the main traffic of Meituan Waimai advertising system.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25649,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25649,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decision-Making for Land Conservation: A Derivative-Free Optimization Framework with Nonlinear Inputs,Cassidy K. Buhler;Hande Y. Benson,"Protected areas( PAs) are designated spaces where human activities are restricted to preserve critical habitats. Decision-makers are challenged with balancing a trade-off of financial feasibility with ecological benefit when establishing PAs. Given the long-term ramifications of these decisions and the constantly shifting environment, it is crucial that PAs are carefully selected with long-term viability in mind. Using AI tools like simulation and optimization is common for designating PAs, but current decision models are primarily linear. In this paper, we propose a derivative-free optimization framework paired with a nonlinear component, population viability analysis( PVA). Formulated as a mixed integer nonlinear programming( MINLP) problem, our model allows for linear and nonlinear inputs. Connectivity, competition, crowding, and other similar concerns are handled by the PVA software, rather than expressed as constraints of the optimization model. In addition, we present numerical results that serve as a proof of concept, showing our models yield PAs with similar expected risk to that of preserving every parcel in a habitat, but at a significantly lower cost. The overall goal is to promote interdisciplinary work by providing a new mathematical programming tool for conservationists that allows for nonlinear inputs and can be paired with existing ecological software. The code and data are available at https://github. com/cassiebuhler/conservation-dfo.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30195,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30195,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decoding AI\'92s Nudge: A Unified Framework to Predict Human Behavior in AI-Assisted Decision Making,Zhuoyan Li;Zhuoran Lu;Ming Yin,"With the rapid development of AI-based decision aids, different forms of AI assistance have been increasingly integrated into the human decision making processes. To best support humans in decision making, it is essential to quantitatively understand how diverse forms of AI assistance influence humans decision making behavior. To this end, much of the current research focuses on the end-to-end prediction of human behavior using ``black-box models, often lacking interpretations of the nuanced ways in which AI assistance impacts the human decision making process. Meanwhile, methods that prioritize the interpretability of human behavior predictions are often tailored for one specific form of AI assistance, making adaptations to other forms of assistance difficult. In this paper, we propose a computational framework that can provide an interpretable characterization of the influence of different forms of AI assistance on decision makers in AI-assisted decision making. By conceptualizing AI assistance as the ``nudge in human decision making processes, our approach centers around modelling how different forms of AI assistance modify humans strategy in weighing different information in making their decisions. Evaluations on behavior data collected from real human decision makers show that the proposed framework outperforms various baselines in accurately predicting human behavior in AI-assisted decision making. Based on the proposed framework, we further provide insights into how individuals with different cognitive styles are nudged by AI assistance differently.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28872,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28872,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decomposing Temporal Equilibrium Strategy for Coordinated Distributed Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,Chenyang Zhu;Wen Si;Jinyu Zhu;Zhihao Jiang,"The increasing demands for system complexity and robustness have prompted the integration of temporal logic into Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning( MARL) to address tasks with non-Markovian properties. However, incorporating non-Markovian properties introduces additional computational complexities, as agents are required to integrate historical data into their decision-making process. Also, optimizing strategies within a multi-agent environment presents significant challenges due to the exponential growth of the state space with the number of agents. In this study, we introduce an innovative hierarchical MARL framework that synthesizes temporal equilibrium strategies through parity games and subsequently encodes them as individual reward machines for MARL coordination. More specifically, we reduce the strategy synthesis problem into an emptiness problem concerning parity games with optimized states and transitions. Following this synthesis step, the temporal equilibrium strategy is decomposed into individual reward machines for decentralized MARL. Theoretical proofs are provided to verify the consistency of the Nash equilibrium between the parallel composition of decomposed strategies and the original strategy. Empirical evidence confirms the efficacy of the proposed synthesis technique, showcasing its ability to reduce state space compared to the state-of-the-art tool. Furthermore, our study highlights the superior performance of the distributed MARL paradigm over centralized approaches when deploying decomposed strategies.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29713,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29713,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Decomposition Strategies for Constructive Preference Elicitation,Paolo Dragone;Stefano Teso;Mohit Kumar;Andrea Passerini,"We tackle the problem of constructive preference elicitation, that is the problem of learning user preferences over verylarge decision problems, involving a combinatorial space of possible outcomes. In this setting, the suggested configuration is synthesized on-the-fly by solving a constrained optimization problem, while the preferences are learned iteratively by interacting with the user. Previous work has shown that Coactive Learning is a suitable method for learning userpreferences in constructive scenarios. In Coactive Learning the user provides feedback to the algorithm in the form of an improvement to a suggested configuration. When the problem involves many decision variables and constraints, this type of interaction poses a significant cognitive burden on the user. We propose a decomposition technique for large preference-based decision problems relying exclusively on inference and feedback over partial configurations. This has the clear advantage of drastically reducing the user cognitive load. Additionally, part-wise inference can be( up to exponentially) less computationally demanding than inference over full configurations. We discuss the theoretical implications of working with parts and present promising empirical results on one synthetic and two realistic constructive problems.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11800,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11800,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Embedded Complementary and Interactive Information for Multi-View Classification,Jinglin Xu;Wenbin Li;Xinwang Liu;Dingwen Zhang;Ji Liu;Junwei Han,"Multi-view classification optimally integrates various features from different views to improve classification tasks. Though most of the existing works demonstrate promising performance in various computer vision applications, we observe that they can be further improved by sufficiently utilizing complementary view-specific information, deep interactive information between different views, and the strategy of fusing various views. In this work, we propose a novel multi-view learning framework that seamlessly embeds various view-specific information and deep interactive information and introduces a novel multi-view fusion strategy to make a joint decision during the optimization for classification. Specifically, we utilize different deep neural networks to learn multiple view-specific representations, and model deep interactive information through a shared interactive network using the cross-correlations between attributes of these representations. After that, we adaptively integrate multiple neural networks by flexibly tuning the power exponent of weight, which not only avoids the trivial solution of weight but also provides a new approach to fuse outputs from different deterministic neural networks. Extensive experiments on several public datasets demonstrate the rationality and effectiveness of our method.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6122,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6122,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Implicit Statistical Shape Models for 3D Medical Image Delineation,Ashwin Raju;Shun Miao;Dakai Jin;Le Lu;Junzhou Huang;Adam P. Harrison,"3D delineation of anatomical structures is a cardinal goal in medical imaging analysis. Prior to deep learning, statistical shape models( SSMs) that imposed anatomical constraints and produced high quality surfaces were a core technology. Today\'92s fully-convolutional networks( FCNs) , while dominant, do not offer these capabilities. We present deep implicit statistical shape models( DISSMs) , a new approach that marries the representation power of deep networks with the benefits of SSMs. DISSMs use an implicit representation to produce compact and descriptive deep surface embeddings that permit statistical models of anatomical variance. To reliably fit anatomically plausible shapes to an image, we introduce a novel rigid and non-rigid pose estimation pipeline that is modelled as a Markov decision process( MDP). Intra-dataset experiments on the task of pathological liver segmentation demonstrate that DISSMs can perform more robustly than four leading FCN models, including nnU-Net + an adversarial prior: reducing the mean Hausdorff distance( HD) by 7. 5-14. 3 mm and improving the worst case Dice-S\'f8rensen coefficient( DSC) by 1. 2-2. 3%. More critically, cross-dataset experiments on an external and highly challenging clinical dataset demonstrate that DISSMs improve the mean DSC and HD by 2. 1-5. 9% and 9. 9-24. 5 mm, respectively, and the worst-case DSC by 5. 4-7. 3%. Supplemental validation on a highly challenging and low-contrast larynx dataset further demonstrate DISSM\'92s improvements. These improvements are over and above any benefits from representing delineations with high-quality surfaces.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20110,10.1609/aaai.v36i2.20110,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Neural Network Approximated Dynamic Programming for Combinatorial Optimization,Shenghe Xu;Shivendra S. Panwar;Murali Kodialam;T.V. Lakshman,"In this paper, we propose a general framework for combining deep neural networks( DNNs) with dynamic programming to solve combinatorial optimization problems. For problems that can be broken into smaller subproblems and solved by dynamic programming, we train a set of neural networks to replace value or policy functions at each decision step. Two variants of the neural network approximated dynamic programming( NDP) methods are proposed; in the value-based NDP method, the networks learn to estimate the value of each choice at the corresponding step, while in the policy-based NDP method the DNNs only estimate the best decision at each step. The training procedure of the NDP starts from the smallest problem size and a new DNN for the next size is trained to cooperate with previous DNNs. After all the DNNs are trained, the networks are fine-tuned together to further improve overall performance. We test NDP on the linear sum assignment problem, the traveling salesman problem and the talent scheduling problem. Experimental results show that NDP can achieve considerable computation time reduction on hard problems with reasonable performance loss. In general, NDP can be applied to reducible combinatorial optimization problems for the purpose of computation time reduction.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5531,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5531,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Neural Networks Constrained by Decision Rules,Yuzuru Okajima;Kunihiko Sadamasa,"Deep neural networks achieve high predictive accuracy by learning latent representations of complex data. However, the reasoning behind their decisions is difficult for humans to understand. On the other hand, rule-based approaches are able to justify the decisions by showing the decision rules leading to them, but they have relatively low accuracy. To improve the interpretability of neural networks, several techniques provide post-hoc explanations of decisions made by neural networks, but they cannot guarantee that the decisions are always explained in a simple form like decision rules because their explanations are generated after the decisions are made by neural networks. In this paper, to balance the accuracy of neural networks and the interpretability of decision rules, we propose a hybrid technique called rule-constrained networks, namely, neural networks that make decisions by selecting decision rules from a given ruleset. Because the networks are forced to make decisions based on decision rules, it is guaranteed that every decision is supported by a decision rule. Furthermore, we propose a technique to jointly optimize the neural network and the ruleset from which the network select rules. The log likelihood of correct classifications is maximized under a model with hyper parameters about the ruleset size and the prior probabilities of rules being selected. This feature makes it possible to limit the ruleset size or prioritize human-made rules over automatically acquired rules for promoting the interpretability of the output. Experiments on datasets of time-series and sentiment classification showed rule-constrained networks achieved accuracy as high as that achieved by original neural networks and significantly higher than that achieved by existing rule-based models, while presenting decision rules supporting the decisions.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4095,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012496,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Open Intent Classification with Adaptive Decision Boundary,Hanlei Zhang;Hua Xu;Ting-En Lin,"Open intent classification is a challenging task in dialogue systems. On the one hand, it should ensure the quality of known intent identification. On the other hand, it needs to detect the open( unknown) intent without prior knowledge. Current models are limited in finding the appropriate decision boundary to balance the performances of both known intents and the open intent. In this paper, we propose a post-processing method to learn the adaptive decision boundary( ADB) for open intent classification. We first utilize the labeled known intent samples to pre-train the model. Then, we automatically learn the adaptive spherical decision boundary for each known class with the aid of well-trained features. Specifically, we propose a new loss function to balance both the empirical risk and the open space risk. Our method does not need open intent samples and is free from modifying the model architecture. Moreover, our approach is surprisingly insensitive with less labeled data and fewer known intents. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets show that our method yields significant improvements compared with the state-of-the-art methods.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17690,10.1609/aaai.v35i16.17690,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Q-learning From Demonstrations,Todd Hester;Matej Vecerik;Olivier Pietquin;Marc Lanctot;Tom Schaul;Bilal Piot;Dan Horgan;John Quan;Andrew Sendonaris;Ian Osband;Gabriel Dulac-Arnold;John Agapiou;Joel Leibo;Audrunas Gruslys,"Deep reinforcement learning( RL) has achieved several high profile successes in difficult decision-making problems. However, these algorithms typically require a huge amount of data before they reach reasonable performance. In fact, their performance during learning can be extremely poor. This may be acceptable for a simulator, but it severely limits the applicability of deep RL to many real-world tasks, where the agent must learn in the real environment. In this paper we study a setting where the agent may access data from previous control of the system. We present an algorithm, Deep Q-learning from Demonstrations( DQfD) , that leverages small sets of demonstration data to massively accelerate the learning process even from relatively small amounts of demonstration data and is able to automatically assess the necessary ratio of demonstration data while learning thanks to a prioritized replay mechanism. DQfD works by combining temporal difference updates with supervised classification of the demonstrator\'92s actions. We show that DQfD has better initial performance than Prioritized Dueling Double Deep Q-Networks( PDD DQN) as it starts with better scores on the first million steps on 41 of 42 games and on average it takes PDD DQN 83 million steps to catch up to DQfD\'92s performance. DQfD learns to out-perform the best demonstration given in 14 of 42 games. In addition, DQfD leverages human demonstrations to achieve state-of-the-art results for 11 games. Finally, we show that DQfD performs better than three related algorithms for incorporating demonstration data into DQN.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11757,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11757,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Reactive Policies for Planning in Stochastic Nonlinear Domains,Thiago P. Bueno;Leliane N. de Barros;Denis D. Mau\'e1;Scott Sanner,"Recent advances in applying deep learning to planning have shown that Deep Reactive Policies( DRPs) can be powerful for fast decision-making in complex environments. However, an important limitation of current DRP-based approaches is either the need of optimal planners to be used as ground truth in a supervised learning setting or the sample complexity of high-variance policy gradient estimators, which are particularly troublesome in continuous state-action domains. In order to overcome those limitations, we introduce a framework for training DRPs in continuous stochastic spaces via gradient-based policy search. The general approach is to explicitly encode a parametric policy as a deep neural network, and to formulate the probabilistic planning problem as an optimization task in a stochastic computation graph by exploiting the re-parameterization of the transition probability densities; the optimization is then solved by leveraging gradient descent algorithms that are able to handle non-convex objective functions. We benchmark our approach against stochastic planning domains exhibiting arbitrary differentiable nonlinear transition and cost functions( e. g. , Reservoir Control, HVAC and Navigation). Results show that DRPs with more than 125, 000 continuous action parameters can be optimized by our approach for problems with 30 state fluents and 30 action fluents on inexpensive hardware under 6 minutes. Also, we observed a speedup of 5 orders of magnitude in the average inference time per decision step of DRPs when compared to other state-of-the-art online gradient-based planners when the same level of solution quality is required.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4744,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017530,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Recurrent Belief Propagation Network for POMDPs,Yuhui Wang;Xiaoyang Tan,"In many real-world sequential decision-making tasks, especially in continuous control like robotic control, it is rare that the observations are perfect, that is, the sensory data could be incomplete, noisy or even dynamically polluted due to the unexpected malfunctions or intrinsic low quality of the sensors. Previous methods handle these issues in the framework of POMDPs and are either deterministic by feature memorization or stochastic by belief inference. In this paper, we present a new method that lies somewhere in the middle of the spectrum of research methodology identified above and combines the strength of both approaches. In particular, the proposed method, named Deep Recurrent Belief Propagation Network( DRBPN) , takes a hybrid style belief updating procedure \uc0\u8722  an RNN-type feature extraction step followed by an analytical belief inference, significantly reducing the computational cost while faithfully capturing the complex dynamics and maintaining the necessary uncertainty for generalization. The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified on a collection of benchmark tasks, showing that our approach outperforms several state-of-the-art methods under various challenging scenarios.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17227,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17227,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Reinforcement Learning for Early Diagnosis of Lung Cancer,Yifan Wang;Qining Zhang;Lei Ying;Chuan Zhou,"Lung cancer remains the leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, and early diagnosis of lung cancer is critical for improving the survival rate of patients. Performing annual low-dose computed tomography( LDCT) screening among high-risk populations is the primary approach for early diagnosis. However, after each screening, whether to continue monitoring( with follow-up screenings) or to order a biopsy for diagnosis remains a challenging decision to make. Continuing with follow-up screenings may lead to delayed diagnosis but ordering a biopsy without sufficient evidence incurs unnecessary risk and cost. In this paper, we tackle the problem by an optimal stopping approach. Our proposed algorithm, called EarlyStop-RL, utilizes the structure of the Snell envelope for optimal stopping, and model-free deep reinforcement learning for making diagnosis decisions. Through evaluating our algorithm on a commonly used clinical trial dataset( the National Lung Screening Trial) , we demonstrate that EarlyStop-RL has the potential to greatly enhance risk assessment and early diagnosis of lung cancer, surpassing the performance of two widely adopted clinical models, namely the Lung-RADS and the Brock model.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30248,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30248,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Reinforcement Learning for Unsupervised Video Summarization With Diversity-Representativeness Reward,Kaiyang Zhou;Yu Qiao;Tao Xiang,"Video summarization aims to facilitate large-scale video browsing by producing short, concise summaries that are diverse and representative of original videos. In this paper, we formulate video summarization as a sequential decision-making process and develop a deep summarization network( DSN) to summarize videos. DSN predicts for each video frame a probability, which indicates how likely a frame is selected, and then takes actions based on the probability distributions to select frames, forming video summaries. To train our DSN, we propose an end-to-end, reinforcement learning-based framework, where we design a novel reward function that jointly accounts for diversity and representativeness of generated summaries and does not rely on labels or user interactions at all. During training, the reward function judges how diverse and representative the generated summaries are, while DSN strives for earning higher rewards by learning to produce more diverse and more representative summaries. Since labels are not required, our method can be fully unsupervised. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets show that our unsupervised method not only outperforms other state-of-the-art unsupervised methods, but also is comparable to or even superior than most of published supervised approaches.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12255,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12255,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Reinforcement Learning Policies Learn Shared Adversarial Features across MDPs,Ezgi Korkmaz,"The use of deep neural networks as function approximators has led to striking progress for reinforcement learning algorithms and applications. Yet the knowledge we have on decision boundary geometry and the loss landscape of neural policies is still quite limited. In this paper, we propose a framework to investigate the decision boundary and loss landscape similarities across states and across MDPs. We conduct experiments in various games from Arcade Learning Environment, and discover that high sensitivity directions for neural policies are correlated across MDPs. We argue that these high sensitivity directions support the hypothesis that non-robust features are shared across training environments of reinforcement learning agents. We believe our results reveal fundamental properties of the environments used in deep reinforcement learning training, and represent a tangible step towards building robust and reliable deep reinforcement learning agents.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20684,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20684,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Short Text Classification with Knowledge Powered Attention,Jindong Chen;Yizhou Hu;Jingping Liu;Yanghua Xiao;Haiyun Jiang,"Short text classification is one of important tasks in Natural Language Processing( NLP). Unlike paragraphs or documents, short texts are more ambiguous since they have not enough contextual information, which poses a great challenge for classification. In this paper, we retrieve knowledge from external knowledge source to enhance the semantic representation of short texts. We take conceptual information as a kind of knowledge and incorporate it into deep neural networks. For the purpose of measuring the importance of knowledge, we introduce attention mechanisms and propose deep Short Text Classification with Knowledge powered Attention( STCKA). We utilize Concept towards Short Text( CST) attention and Concept towards Concept Set( C-CS) attention to acquire the weight of concepts from two aspects. And we classify a short text with the help of conceptual information. Unlike traditional approaches, our model acts like a human being who has intrinsic ability to make decisions based on observation( i. e. , training data for machines) and pays more attention to important knowledge. We also conduct extensive experiments on four public datasets for different tasks. The experimental results and case studies show that our model outperforms the state-of-the-art methods, justifying the effectiveness of knowledge powered attention.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4585,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016252,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deep Transformation Method for Discriminant Analysis of Multi-Channel Resting State fMRI,Abhay M S Aradhya;Aditya Joglekar;Sundaram Suresh;M. Pratama,"Analysis of resting state - functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging( rs-fMRI) data has been a challenging problem due to a high homogeneity, large intra-class variability, limited samples and difference in acquisition technologies/techniques. These issues are predominant in the case of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder( ADHD). In this paper, we propose a new Deep Transformation Method( DTM) that extracts the discriminant latent feature space from rsfMRI and projects it in the subsequent layer for classification of rs-fMRI data. The hidden transformation layer in DTM projects the original rs-fMRI data into a new space using the learning policy and extracts the spatio-temporal correlations of the functional activities as a latent feature space. The subsequent convolution and decision layers transform the latent feature space into high-level features and provide accurate classification. The performance of DTM has been evaluated using the ADHD200 rs-fMRI benchmark data with crossvalidation. The results show that the proposed DTM achieves a mean classification accuracy of 70. 36% and an improvement of 8. 25% on the state of the art methodologies was observed. The improvement is due to concurrent analysis of the spatio-temporal correlations between the different regions of the brain and can be easily extended to study other cognitive disorders using rs-fMRI. Further, brain network analysis has been studied to identify the difference in functional activities and the corresponding regions behind cognitive symptoms in ADHD.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4102,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012556,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DeepAlerts: Deep Learning Based Multi-Horizon Alerts for Clinical Deterioration on Oncology Hospital Wards,Dingwen Li;Patrick G. Lyons;Chenyang Lu;Marin Kollef,"Machine learning and data mining techniques are increasingly being applied to electronic health record( EHR) data to discover underlying patterns and make predictions for clinical use. For instance, these data may be evaluated to predict clinical deterioration events such as cardiopulmonary arrest or escalation of care to the intensive care unit( ICU). In clinical practice, early warning systems with multiple time horizons could indicate different levels of urgency, allowing clinicians to make decisions regarding triage, testing, and interventions for patients at risk of poor outcomes. These different horizon alerts are related and have intrinsic dependencies, which elicit multi-task learning. In this paper, we investigate approaches to properly train deep multi-task models for predicting clinical deterioration events via generating multi-horizon alerts for hospitalized patients outside the ICU, with particular application to oncology patients. Prior knowledge is used as a regularization to exploit the positive effects from the task relatedness. Simultaneously, we propose task-specific loss balancing to reduce the negative effects when optimizing the joint loss function of deep multi-task models. In addition, we demonstrate the effectiveness of the feature-generating techniques from prediction outcome interpretation. To evaluate the model performance of predicting multi-horizon deterioration alerts in a real world scenario, we apply our approaches to the EHR data from 20, 700 hospitalizations of adult oncology patients. These patients baseline high-risk status provides a unique opportunity: the application of an accurate model to an enriched population could produce improved positive predictive value and reduce false positive alerts. With our dataset, the model applying all proposed learning techniques achieves the best performance compared with common models previously developed for clinical deterioration warning.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5417,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5417,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DeepGemini: Verifying Dependency Fairness for Deep Neural Network,Xuan Xie;Fuyuan Zhang;Xinwen Hu;Lei Ma,"Deep neural networks( DNNs) have been widely adopted in many decision-making industrial applications. Their fairness issues, i. e. , whether there exist unintended biases in the DNN, receive much attention and become critical concerns, which can directly cause negative impacts in our daily life and potentially undermine the fairness of our society, especially with their increasing deployment at an unprecedented speed. Recently, some early attempts have been made to provide fairness assurance of DNNs, such as fairness testing, which aims at finding discriminatory samples empirically, and fairness certification, which develops sound but not complete analysis to certify the fairness of DNNs. Nevertheless, how to formally compute discriminatory samples and fairness scores( i. e. , the percentage of fair input space) , is still largely uninvestigated. In this paper, we propose DeepGemini, a novel fairness formal analysis technique for DNNs, which contains two key components: discriminatory sample discovery and fairness score computation. To uncover discriminatory samples, we encode the fairness of DNNs as safety properties and search for discriminatory samples by means of state-of-the-art verification techniques for DNNs. This reduction enables us to be the first to formally compute discriminatory samples. To compute the fairness score, we develop counterexample guided fairness analysis, which utilizes four heuristics to efficiently approximate a lower bound of fairness score. Extensive experimental evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of DeepGemini on commonly-used benchmarks, and DeepGemini outperforms state-of-the-art DNN fairness certification approaches in terms of both efficiency and scalability.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26779,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26779,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DeepThermal: Combustion Optimization for Thermal Power Generating Units Using Offline Reinforcement Learning,Xianyuan Zhan;Haoran Xu;Yue Zhang;Xiangyu Zhu;Honglei Yin;Yu Zheng,"Optimizing the combustion efficiency of a thermal power generating unit( TPGU) is a highly challenging and critical task in the energy industry. We develop a new data-driven AI system, namely DeepThermal, to optimize the combustion control strategy for TPGUs. At its core, is a new model-based offline reinforcement learning( RL) framework, called MORE, which leverages historical operational data of a TGPU to solve a highly complex constrained Markov decision process problem via purely offline training. In DeepThermal, we first learn a data-driven combustion process simulator from the offline dataset. The RL agent of MORE is then trained by combining real historical data as well as carefully filtered and processed simulation data through a novel restrictive exploration scheme. DeepThermal has been successfully deployed in four large coal-fired thermal power plants in China. Real-world experiments show that DeepThermal effectively improves the combustion efficiency of TPGUs. We also report the superior performance of MORE by comparing with the state-of-the-art algorithms on the standard offline RL benchmarks.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20393,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20393,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) Of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DeepType: Multilingual Entity Linking by Neural Type System Evolution,Jonathan Raiman;Olivier Raiman,"The wealth of structured( e. g. Wikidata) and unstructured data about the world available today presents an incredible opportunity for tomorrows Artificial Intelligence. So far, integration of these two different modalities is a difficult process, involving many decisions concerning how best to represent the information so that it will be captured or useful, and hand-labeling large amounts of data. DeepType overcomes this challenge by explicitly integrating symbolic information into the reasoning process of a neural network with a type system. First we construct a type system, and second, we use it to constrain the outputs of a neural network to respect the symbolic structure. We achieve this by reformulating the design problem into a mixed integer problem: create a type system and subsequently train a neural network with it. In this reformulation discrete variables select which parent-child relations from an ontology are types within the type system, while continuous variables control a classifier fit to the type system. The original problem cannot be solved exactly, so we propose a 2-step algorithm: 1) heuristic search or stochastic optimization over discrete variables that define a type system informed by an Oracle and a Learnability heuristic, 2) gradient descent to fit classifier parameters. We apply DeepType to the problem of Entity Linking on three standard datasets( i. e. WikiDisamb30, CoNLL( YAGO) , TAC KBP 2010) and find that it outperforms all existing solutions by a wide margin, including approaches that rely on a human-designed type system or recent deep learning-based entity embeddings, while explicitly using symbolic information lets it integrate new entities without retraining.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12008,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12008,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Delivering Inflated Explanations,Yacine Izza;Alexey Ignatiev;Peter J. Stuckey;Joao Marques-Silva,"In the quest for Explainable Artificial Intelligence( XAI) one of the questions that frequently arises given a decision made by an AI system is, ``why was the decision made in this way? Formal approaches to explainability build a formal model of the AI system and use this to reason about the properties of the system. Given a set of feature values for an instance to be explained, and a resulting decision, a formal abductive explanation is a set of features, such that if they take the given value will always lead to the same decision. This explanation is useful, it shows that only some features were used in making the final decision. But it is narrow, it only shows that if the selected features take their given values the decision is unchanged. It is possible that some features may change values and still lead to the same decision. In this paper we formally define inflated explanations which is a set of features, and for each feature a set of values( always including the value of the instance being explained) , such that the decision will remain unchanged, for any of the values allowed for any of the features in the( inflated) abductive explanation. Inflated formal explanations are more informative than common abductive explanations since e. g. they allow us to see if the exact value of a feature is important, or it could be any nearby value. Overall they allow us to better understand the role of each feature in the decision. We show that we can compute inflated explanations for not that much greater cost than abductive explanations, and that we can extend duality results for abductive explanations also to inflated explanations.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29170,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29170,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Delving into the Adversarial Robustness of Federated Learning,Jie Zhang;Bo Li;Chen Chen;Lingjuan Lyu;Shuang Wu;Shouhong Ding;Chao Wu,"In Federated Learning( FL) , models are as fragile as centrally trained models against adversarial examples. However, the adversarial robustness of federated learning remains largely unexplored. This paper casts light on the challenge of adversarial robustness of federated learning. To facilitate a better understanding of the adversarial vulnerability of the existing FL methods, we conduct comprehensive robustness evaluations on various attacks and adversarial training methods. Moreover, we reveal the negative impacts induced by directly adopting adversarial training in FL, which seriously hurts the test accuracy, especially in non-IID settings. In this work, we propose a novel algorithm called Decision Boundary based Federated Adversarial Training( DBFAT) , which consists of two components( local re-weighting and global regularization) to improve both accuracy and robustness of FL systems. Extensive experiments on multiple datasets demonstrate that DBFAT consistently outperforms other baselines under both IID and non-IID settings.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26331,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26331,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dependency Stochastic Boolean Satisfiability: A Logical Formalism for NEXPTIME Decision Problems with Uncertainty,Nian-Ze Lee;Jie-Hong R. Jiang,"Stochastic Boolean Satisfiability( SSAT) is a logical formalism to model decision problems with uncertainty, such as Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( POMDP) for verification of probabilistic systems. SSAT, however, is limited by its descriptive power within the PSPACE complexity class. More complex problems, such as the NEXPTIME-complete Decentralized POMDP( Dec-POMDP) , cannot be succinctly encoded with SSAT. To provide a logical formalism of such problems, we generalize the Dependency Quantified Boolean Formula( DQBF) , a representative problem in the NEXPTIME-complete class, to its stochastic variant, named Dependency SSAT( DSSAT) , and show that DSSAT is also NEXPTIME-complete. We demonstrate the potential applications of DSSAT to circuit synthesis of probabilistic and approximate design. Furthermore, to study the descriptive power of DSSAT, we establish a polynomial-time reduction from Dec-POMDP to DSSAT. With the theoretical foundations paved in this work, we hope to encourage the development of DSSAT solvers for potential broad applications.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16506,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16506,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Deploying PAWS: Field Optimization of the Protection Assistant for Wildlife Security,Fei Fang;Thanh H. Nguyen;Rob Pickles;Wai Y. Lam;Gopalasamy R. Clements;Bo An;Amandeep Singh;Milind Tambe;Andrew Lemieux,"Poaching is a serious threat to the conservation of key species and whole ecosystems. While conducting foot patrols is the most commonly used approach in many countries to prevent poaching, such patrols often do not make the best use of limited patrolling resources. To remedy this situation, prior work introduced a novel emerging application called PAWS( Protection Assistant for Wildlife Security) ; PAWS was proposed as a game-theoretic( \'93security games\'94) decision aid to optimize the use of patrolling resources. This paper reports on PAWS\'92s significant evolution from a proposed decision aid to a regularly deployed application, reporting on the lessons from the first tests in Africa in Spring 2014, through its continued evolution since then, to current regular use in Southeast Asia and plans for future worldwide deployment. In this process, we have worked closely with two NGOs( Panthera and Rimba) and incorporated extensive feedback from professional patrolling teams. We outline key technical advances that lead to PAWS\'92s regular deployment:( i) incorporating complex topographic features, e. g. , ridgelines, in generating patrol routes;( ii) handling uncertainties in species distribution( game theoretic payoffs) ;( iii) ensuring scalability for patrolling large-scale conservation areas with fine-grained guidance; and( iv) handling complex patrol scheduling constraints.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19070,10.1609/aaai.v30i2.19070,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Deployed Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Designing Committees for Mitigating Biases,Michal Feldman;Yishay Mansour;Noam Nisan;Sigal Oren;Moshe Tennenholtz,"It is widely observed that individuals prefer to interact with others who are more similar to them( this phenomenon is termed homophily). This similarity manifests itself in various ways such as beliefs, values and education. Thus, it should not come as a surprise that when people make hiring choices, for example, their similarity to the candidate plays a role in their choice. In this paper, we suggest that putting the decision in the hands of a committee instead of a single person can reduce this bias. We study a novel model of voting in which a committee of experts is constructed to reduce the biases of its members. We first present voting rules that optimally reduce the biases of a given committee. Our main results include the design of committees, for several settings, that are able to reach a nearly optimal( unbiased) choice. We also provide a thorough analysis of the trade-offs between the committee size and the obtained error. Our model is inherently different from the well-studied models of voting that focus on aggregation of preferences or on aggregation of information due to the introduction of similarity biases.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5564,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5564,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DetAIL: A Tool to Automatically Detect and Analyze Drift in Language,Nishtha Madaan;Adithya Manjunatha;Hrithik Nambiar;Aviral Goel;Harivansh Kumar;Diptikalyan Saha;Srikanta Bedathur,"Machine learning and deep learning-based decision making has become part of todays software. The goal of this work is to ensure that machine learning and deep learning-based systems are as trusted as traditional software. Traditional software is made dependable by following rigorous practice like static analysis, testing, debugging, verifying, and repairing throughout the development and maintenance life-cycle. Similarly for machine learning systems, we need to keep these models up to date so that their performance is not compromised. For this, current systems rely on scheduled re-training of these models as new data kicks in. In this work, we propose DetAIL, a tool to measure the data drift that takes place when new data kicks in so that one can adaptively re-train the models whenever re-training is actually required irrespective of schedules. In addition to that, we generate various explanations at sentence level and dataset level to capture why a given payload text has drifted.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26872,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26872,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Innovative Tools for Enabling AI Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Detecting Adversarial Examples from Sensitivity Inconsistency of Spatial-Transform Domain,Jinyu Tian;Jiantao Zhou;Yuanman Li;Jia Duan,"Deep neural networks( DNNs) have been shown to be vulnerable against adversarial examples( AEs) , which are maliciously designed to cause dramatic model output errors. In this work, we reveal that normal examples( NEs) are insensitive to the fluctuations occurring at the highly-curved region of the decision boundary, while AEs typically designed over one single domain( mostly spatial domain) exhibit exorbitant sensitivity on such fluctuations. This phenomenon motivates us to design another classifier( called dual classifier) with transformed decision boundary, which can be collaboratively used with the original classifier( called primal classifier) to detect AEs, by virtue of the sensitivity inconsistency. When comparing with the state-of-the-art algorithms based on Local Intrinsic Dimensionality( LID) , Mahalanobis Distance( MD) , and Feature Squeezing( FS) , our proposed\'a0Sensitivity Inconsistency Detector( SID) achieves improved AE detection performance and superior generalization capabilities, especially in the challenging cases where the adversarial perturbation levels are small. Intensive experimental results on ResNet and VGG validate the superiority of the proposed SID.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17187,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17187,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Device Fabrication Knowledge Extraction from Materials Science Literature,Neelanshi Wadhwa;Sarath S;Sapan Shah;Sreedhar Reddy;Pritwish Mitra;Deepak Jain;Beena Rai,"Devices like solar cells, batteries etc. often comprise of a host of material types including organic, inorganic and hybrid materials. The fabrication procedures for these devices involve screening or designing the right set of materials and then subjecting them to a sequence of operations under very specific conditions. The performance characteristics of a device critically depend on the materials used in its fabrication, the specific operations carried out, their operating conditions and the specific sequence in which they are carried out. The space of potential materials, operations and operating conditions is vast, and selecting the right combination thereof to achieve the desired characteristics is a knowledge intensive activity. A large amount of such device fabrication knowledge is available in the form of publications, patents, company reports and so on. In this paper, we present a system that systematically extracts this knowledge from materials science literature. The extracted knowledge is represented as knowledge graphs conforming to an ontology that can be queried to make informed decisions in device fabrication procedures. The system first identifies the set of relevant paragraphs that contain fabrication knowledge. It then employs state of the art entity and relation extraction models to identify instances of operations, methods, materials, etc. and relations between them. The system then applies an unsupervised algorithm to identify sequences of operations representing fabrication procedures. We applied our system on solar cell fabrication knowledge extraction and achieved good performance. We believe our results provide much needed impetus for further work in this area.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17811,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17811,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DGA-GNN: Dynamic Grouping Aggregation GNN for Fraud Detection,Mingjiang Duan;Tongya Zheng;Yang Gao;Gang Wang;Zunlei Feng;Xinyu Wang,"Fraud detection has increasingly become a prominent research field due to the dramatically increased incidents of fraud. The complex connections involving thousands, or even millions of nodes, present challenges for fraud detection tasks. Many researchers have developed various graph-based methods to detect fraud from these intricate graphs. However, those methods neglect two distinct characteristics of the fraud graph: the non-additivity of certain attributes and the distinguishability of grouped messages from neighbor nodes. This paper introduces the Dynamic Grouping Aggregation Graph Neural Network( DGA-GNN) for fraud detection, which addresses these two characteristics by dynamically grouping attribute value ranges and neighbor nodes. In DGA-GNN, we initially propose the decision tree binning encoding to transform non-additive node attributes into bin vectors. This approach aligns well with the GNN\'92s aggregation operation and avoids nonsensical feature generation. Furthermore, we devise a feedback dynamic grouping strategy to classify graph nodes into two distinct groups and then employ a hierarchical aggregation. This method extracts more discriminative features for fraud detection tasks. Extensive experiments on five datasets suggest that our proposed method achieves a 3% ~ 16% improvement over existing SOTA methods. Code is available at https://github. com/AtwoodDuan/DGA-GNN.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29067,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.29067,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dictionary-Guided Editing Networks for Paraphrase Generation,Shaohan Huang;Yu Wu;Furu Wei;Zhongzhi Luan,"An intuitive way for a human to write paraphrase sentences is to replace words or phrases in the original sentence with their corresponding synonyms and make necessary changes to ensure the new sentences are fluent and grammatically correct. We propose a novel approach to modeling the process with dictionary-guided editing networks which effectively conduct rewriting on the source sentence to generate paraphrase sentences. It jointly learns the selection of the appropriate word level and phrase level paraphrase pairs in the context of the original sentence from an off-the-shelf dictionary as well as the generation of fluent natural language sentences. Specifically, the system retrieves a set of word level and phrase level paraphrase pairs derived from the Paraphrase Database( PPDB) for the original sentence, which is used to guide the decision of which the words might be deleted or inserted with the soft attention mechanism under the sequence-to-sequence framework. We conduct experiments on two benchmark datasets for paraphrase generation, namely the MSCOCO and Quora dataset. The automatic evaluation results demonstrate that our dictionary-guided editing networks outperforms the baseline methods. On human evaluation, results indicate that the generated paraphrases are grammatically correct and relevant to the input sentence.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4621,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016546,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DiFA: Differentiable Feature Acquisition,Aritra Ghosh;Andrew Lan,"Feature acquisition in predictive modeling is an important task in many practical applications. For example, in patient health prediction, we do not fully observe their personal features and need to dynamically select features to acquire. Our goal is to acquire a small subset of features that maximize prediction performance. Recently, some works reformulated feature acquisition as a Markov decision process and applied reinforcement learning( RL) algorithms, where the reward reflects both prediction performance and feature acquisition cost. However, RL algorithms only use zeroth-order information on the reward, which leads to slow empirical convergence, especially when there are many actions( number of features) to consider. For predictive modeling, it is possible to use first-order information on the reward, i. e. , gradients, since we are often given an already collected dataset. Therefore, we propose differentiable feature acquisition( DiFA) , which uses a differentiable representation of the feature selection policy to enable gradients to flow from the prediction loss to the policy parameters. We conduct extensive experiments on various real-world datasets and show that DiFA significantly outperforms existing feature acquisition methods when the number of features is large.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25934,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25934,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DiffAIL: Diffusion Adversarial Imitation Learning,Bingzheng Wang;Guoqiang Wu;Teng Pang;Yan Zhang;Yilong Yin,"Imitation learning aims to solve the problem of defining reward functions in real-world decision-making tasks. The current popular approach is the Adversarial Imitation Learning( AIL) framework, which matches expert state-action occupancy measures to obtain a surrogate reward for forward reinforcement learning. However, the traditional discriminator is a simple binary classifier and doesnt learn an accurate distribution, which may result in failing to identify expert-level state-action pairs induced by the policy interacting with the environment. To address this issue, we propose a method named diffusion adversarial imitation learning( DiffAIL) , which introduces the diffusion model into the AIL framework. Specifically, DiffAIL models the state-action pairs as unconditional diffusion models and uses diffusion loss as part of the discriminators learning objective, which enables the discriminator to capture better expert demonstrations and improve generalization. Experimentally, the results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance and significantly surpasses expert demonstration on two benchmark tasks, including the standard state-action setting and state-only settings.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29470,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29470,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Differential Performance Debugging With Discriminant Regression Trees,Saeid Tizpaz-Niari;Pavol Cerny;Bor-Yuh Evan Chang;Ashutosh Trivedi,"Differential performance debugging is a technique to find performance problems. It applies in situations where the performance of a program is( unexpectedly) different for different classes of inputs. The task is to explain the differences in asymptotic performance among various input classes in terms of program internals. We propose a data-driven technique based on discriminant regression tree( DRT) learning problem where the goal is to discriminate among different classes of inputs. We propose a new algorithm for DRT learning that first clusters the data into functional clusters, capturing different asymptotic performance classes, and then invokes off-the-shelf decision tree learning algorithms to explain these clusters. We focus on linear functional clusters and adapt classical clustering algorithms( K-means and spectral) to produce them. For the K-means algorithm, we generalize the notion of the cluster centroid from a point to a linear function. We adapt spectral clustering by defining a novel kernel function to capture the notion of linear similarity between two data points. We evaluate our approach on benchmarks consisting of Java programs where we are interested in debugging performance. We show that our algorithm significantly outperforms other well-known regression tree learning algorithms in terms of running time and accuracy of classification.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11875,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11875,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Differentially Private and Fair Classification via Calibrated Functional Mechanism,Jiahao Ding;Xinyue Zhang;Xiaohuan Li;Junyi Wang;Rong Yu;Miao Pan,"Machine learning is increasingly becoming a powerful tool to make decisions in a wide variety of applications, such as medical diagnosis and autonomous driving. Privacy concerns related to the training data and unfair behaviors of some decisions with regard to certain attributes( e. g. , sex, race) are becoming more critical. Thus, constructing a fair machine learning model while simultaneously providing privacy protection becomes a challenging problem. In this paper, we focus on the design of classification model with fairness and differential privacy guarantees by jointly combining functional mechanism and decision boundary fairness. In order to enforce \uc0\u1013 -differential privacy and fairness, we leverage the functional mechanism to add different amounts of Laplace noise regarding different attributes to the polynomial coefficients of the objective function in consideration of fairness constraint. We further propose an utility-enhancement scheme, called relaxed functional mechanism by adding Gaussian noise instead of Laplace noise, hence achieving( \u1013 , \u948 ) -differential privacy. Based on the relaxed functional mechanism, we can design( \u1013 , \u948 ) -differentially private and fair classification model. Moreover, our theoretical analysis and empirical results demonstrate that our two approaches achieve both fairness and differential privacy while preserving good utility and outperform the state-of-the-art algorithms.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5402,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5402,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Differentially Private and Fair Deep Learning: A Lagrangian Dual Approach,Cuong Tran;Ferdinando Fioretto;Pascal Van Hentenryck,"A critical concern in data-driven decision making is to build models whose outcomes do not discriminate against some demographic groups, including gender, ethnicity, or age. To ensure non-discrimination in learning tasks, knowledge of the sensitive attributes is essential, while, in practice, these attributes may not be available due to legal and ethical requirements. To address this challenge, this paper studies a model that protects the privacy of the individuals\'92 sensitive information while also allowing it to learn non-discriminatory predictors. The method relies on the notion of differential privacy and the use of Lagrangian duality to design neural networks that can accommodate fairness constraints while guaranteeing the privacy of sensitive attributes. The paper analyses the tension between accuracy, privacy, and fairness and the experimental evaluation illustrates the benefits of the proposed model on several prediction tasks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17193,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17193,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Differentially Private Fair Division,Pasin Manurangsi;Warut Suksompong,"Fairness and privacy are two important concerns in social decision-making processes such as resource allocation. We study privacy in the fair allocation of indivisible resources using the well-established framework of differential privacy. We present algorithms for approximate envy-freeness and proportionality when two instances are considered to be adjacent if they differ only on the utility of a single agent for a single item. On the other hand, we provide strong negative results for both fairness criteria when the adjacency notion allows the entire utility function of a single agent to change.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25721,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25721,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Differentially Private Regret Minimization in Episodic Markov Decision Processes,Sayak Ray Chowdhury;Xingyu Zhou,"We study regret minimization in finite horizon tabular Markov decision processes( MDPs) under the constraints of differential privacy( DP). This is motivated by the widespread applications of reinforcement learning( RL) in real-world sequential decision making problems, where protecting users sensitive and private information is becoming paramount. We consider two variants of DP -- joint DP( JDP) , where a centralized agent is responsible for protecting users sensitive data and local DP( LDP) , where information needs to be protected directly on the user side. We first propose two general frameworks -- one for policy optimization and another for value iteration -- for designing private, optimistic RL algorithms. We then instantiate these frameworks with suitable privacy mechanisms to satisfy JDP and LDP requirements, and simultaneously obtain sublinear regret guarantees. The regret bounds show that under JDP, the cost of privacy is only a lower order additive term, while for a stronger privacy protection under LDP, the cost suffered is multiplicative. Finally, the regret bounds are obtained by a unified analysis, which, we believe, can be extended beyond tabular MDPs.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20588,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20588,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dilated FCN for Multi-Agent 2D/3D Medical Image Registration,Shun Miao;Sebastien Piat;Peter Fischer;Ahmet Tuysuzoglu;Philip Mewes;Tommaso Mansi;Rui Liao,"2D/3D image registration to align a 3D volume and 2D X-ray images is a challenging problem due to its ill-posed nature and various artifacts presented in 2D X-ray images. In this paper, we propose a multi-agent system with an auto attention mechanism for robust and efficient 2D/3D image registration. Specifically, an individual agent is trained with dilated Fully Convolutional Network( FCN) to perform registration in a Markov Decision Process( MDP) by observing a local region, and the final action is then taken based on the proposals from multiple agents and weighted by their corresponding confidence levels. The contributions of this paper are threefold. First, we formulate 2D/3D registration as a MDP with observations, actions, and rewards properly defined with respect to X-ray imaging systems. Second, to handle various artifacts in 2D X-ray images, multiple local agents are employed efficiently via FCN-based structures, and an auto attention mechanism is proposed to favor the proposals from regions with more reliable visual cues. Third, a dilated FCN-based training mechanism is proposed to significantly reduce the Degree of Freedom in the simulation of registration environment, and drastically improve training efficiency by an order of magnitude compared to standard CNN-based training method. We demonstrate that the proposed method achieves high robustness on both spine cone beam Computed Tomography data with a low signal-to-noise ratio and data from minimally invasive spine surgery where severe image artifacts and occlusions are presented due to metal screws and guide wires, outperforming other state-of-the-art methods( single agent-based and optimization-based) by a large margin.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11576,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11576,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Direct Heterogeneous Causal Learning for Resource Allocation Problems in Marketing,Hao Zhou;Shaoming Li;Guibin Jiang;Jiaqi Zheng;Dong Wang,"Marketing is an important mechanism to increase user engagement and improve platform revenue, and heterogeneous causal learning can help develop more effective strategies. Most decision-making problems in marketing can be formulated as resource allocation problems and have been studied for decades. Existing works usually divide the solution procedure into two fully decoupled stages, i. e. , machine learning( ML) and operation research( OR) --- the first stage predicts the model parameters and they are fed to the optimization in the second stage. However, the error of the predicted parameters in ML cannot be respected and a series of complex mathematical operations in OR lead to the increased accumulative errors. Essentially, the improved precision on the prediction parameters may not have a positive correlation on the final solution due to the side-effect from the decoupled design. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for solving resource allocation problems to mitigate the side-effects. Our key intuition is that we introduce the decision factor to establish a bridge between ML and OR such that the solution can be directly obtained in OR by only performing the sorting or comparison operations on the decision factor. Furthermore, we design a customized loss function that can conduct direct heterogeneous causal learning on the decision factor, an unbiased estimation of which can be guaranteed when the loss convergences. As a case study, we apply our approach to two crucial problems in marketing: the binary treatment assignment problem and the budget allocation problem with multiple treatments. Both large-scale simulations and online A/B Tests demonstrate that our approach achieves significant improvement compared with state-of-the-art.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25677,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25677,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Discretionary Trees: Understanding Street-Level Bureaucracy via Machine Learning,Gaurab Pokharel;Sanmay Das;Patrick Fowler,"Street-level bureaucrats interact directly with people on behalf of government agencies to perform a wide range of functions, including, for example, administering social services and policing. A key feature of street-level bureaucracy is that the civil servants, while tasked with implementing agency policy, are also granted significant discretion in how they choose to apply that policy in individual cases. Using that discretion could be beneficial, as it allows for exceptions to policies based on human interactions and evaluations, but it could also allow biases and inequities to seep into important domains of societal resource allocation. In this paper, we use machine learning techniques to understand street-level bureaucrats behavior. We leverage a rich dataset that combines demographic and other information on households with information on which homelessness interventions they were assigned during a period when assignments were not formulaic. We find that caseworker decisions in this time are highly predictable overall, and some, but not all of this predictivity can be captured by simple decision rules. We theorize that the decisions not captured by the simple decision rules can be considered applications of caseworker discretion. These discretionary decisions are far from random in both the characteristics of such households and in terms of the outcomes of the decisions. Caseworkers typically only apply discretion to households that would be considered less vulnerable. When they do apply discretion to assign households to more intensive interventions, the marginal benefits to those households are significantly higher than would be expected if the households were chosen at random; there is no similar reduction in marginal benefit to households that are discretionarily allocated less intensive interventions, suggesting that caseworkers are using their knowledge and experience to improve outcomes for households experiencing homelessness.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30236,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30236,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Disjunctive Program Synthesis: A Robust Approach to Programming by Example,Mohammad Raza;Sumit Gulwani,"Programming by example( PBE) systems allow end users to easily create programs by providing a few input-output examples to specify their intended task. The system attempts to generate a program in a domain specific language( DSL) that satisfies the given examples. However, a key challenge faced by existing PBE techniques is to ensure the robustness of the programs that are synthesized from a small number of examples, as these programs often fail when applied to new inputs. This is because there can be many possible programs satisfying a small number of examples, and the PBE system has to somehow rank between these candidates and choose the correct one without any further information from the user. In this work we present a different approach to PBE in which the system avoids making a ranking decision at the synthesis stage, by instead synthesizing a disjunctive program that includes the many top-ranked programs as possible alternatives and selects between these different choices upon execution on a new input. This delayed choice brings the important benefit of comparing the possible outputs produced by the different disjuncts on a given input at execution time. We present a generic framework for synthesizing such disjunctive programs in arbitrary DSLs, and describe two concrete implementations of disjunctive synthesis in the practical domains of data extraction from plain text and HTML documents. We present an evaluation showing the significant increase in robustness achieved with our disjunctive approach, as illustrated by an increase from 59% to 93% of tasks for which correct programs can be learnt from a single example.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11530,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11530,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dissenting Explanations: Leveraging Disagreement to Reduce Model Overreliance,Omer Reingold;Judy Hanwen Shen;Aditi Talati,"While modern explanation methods have been shown to be inconsistent and contradictory, the explainability of black-box models nevertheless remains desirable. When the role of explanations extends from understanding models to aiding decision making, the semantics of explanations is not always fully understood \'96 to what extent do explanations ``explain\'94 a decision and to what extent do they merely advocate for a decision? Can we help humans gain insights from explanations accompanying correct predictions and not over-rely on incorrect predictions advocated for by explanations? With this perspective in mind, we introduce the notion of dissenting explanations: conflicting predictions with accompanying explanations. We first explore the advantage of dissenting explanations in the setting of model multiplicity, where multiple models with similar performance may have different predictions. Through a human study on the task of identifying deceptive reviews, we demonstrate that dissenting explanations reduce overreliance on model predictions, without reducing overall accuracy. Motivated by the utility of dissenting explanations we present both global and local methods for their generation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30151,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30151,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Distillation of RL Policies with Formal Guarantees via Variational Abstraction of Markov Decision Processes,Florent Delgrange;Ann Now\'e9;Guillermo A. P\'e9rez,"We consider the challenge of policy simplification and verification in the context of policies learned through reinforcement learning( RL) in continuous environments. In well-behaved settings, RL algorithms have convergence guarantees in the limit. While these guarantees are valuable, they are insufficient for safety-critical applications. Furthermore, they are lost when applying advanced techniques such as deep-RL. To recover guarantees when applying advanced RL algorithms to more complex environments with( i) reachability, ( ii) safety-constrained reachability, or( iii) discounted-reward objectives, we build upon the DeepMDP framework to derive new bisimulation bounds between the unknown environment and a learned discrete latent model of it. Our bisimulation bounds enable the application of formal methods for Markov decision processes. Finally, we show how one can use a policy obtained via state-of-the-art RL to efficiently train a variational autoencoder that yields a discrete latent model with provably approximately correct bisimulation guarantees. Additionally, we obtain a distilled version of the policy for the latent model.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20602,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20602,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Distributed Machine Learning through Heterogeneous Edge Systems,Hanpeng Hu;Dan Wang;Chuan Wu,"Many emerging AI applications request distributed machine learning( ML) among edge systems( e. g. , IoT devices and PCs at the edge of the Internet) , where data cannot be uploaded to a central venue for model training, due to their large volumes and/or security/privacy concerns. Edge devices are intrinsically heterogeneous in computing capacity, posing significant challenges to parameter synchronization for parallel training with the parameter server( PS) architecture. This paper proposes ADSP, a parameter synchronization model for distributed machine learning( ML) with heterogeneous edge systems. Eliminating the significant waiting time occurring with existing parameter synchronization models, the core idea of ADSP is to let faster edge devices continue training, while committing their model updates at strategically decided intervals. We design algorithms that decide time points for each worker to commit its model update, and ensure not only global model convergence but also faster convergence. Our testbed implementation and experiments show that ADSP outperforms existing parameter synchronization models significantly in terms of ML model convergence time, scalability and adaptability to large heterogeneity.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6207,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6207,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Distributionally Robust Counterfactual Risk Minimization,Louis Faury;Ugo Tanielian;Elvis Dohmatob;Elena Smirnova;Flavian Vasile,"This manuscript introduces the idea of using Distributionally Robust Optimization( DRO) for the Counterfactual Risk Minimization( CRM) problem. Tapping into a rich existing literature, we show that DRO is a principled tool for counterfactual decision making. We also show that well-established solutions to the CRM problem like sample variance penalization schemes are special instances of a more general DRO problem. In this unifying framework, a variety of distributionally robust counterfactual risk estimators can be constructed using various probability distances and divergences as uncertainty measures. We propose the use of Kullback-Leibler divergence as an alternative way to model uncertainty in CRM and derive a new robust counterfactual objective. In our experiments, we show that this approach outperforms the state-of-the-art on four benchmark datasets, validating the relevance of using other uncertainty measures in practical applications.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5797,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5797,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,District-Fair Participatory Budgeting,D Ellis Hershkowitz;Anson Kahng;Dominik Peters;Ariel D. Procaccia,"Participatory budgeting is a method used by city governments to select public projects to fund based on residents votes. Many cities use participatory budgeting at a district level. Typically, a budget is divided among districts proportionally to their population, and each district holds an election over local projects and then uses its budget to fund the projects most preferred by its voters. However, district-level participatory budgeting can yield poor social welfare because it does not necessarily fund projects supported across multiple districts. On the other hand, decision making that only takes global social welfare into account can be unfair to districts: A social-welfare-maximizing solution might not fund any of the projects preferred by a district, despite the fact that its constituents pay taxes to the city. Thus, we study how to fairly maximize social welfare in a participatory budgeting setting with a single city-wide election. We propose a notion of fairness that guarantees each district at least as much welfare as it would have received in a district-level election. We show that, although optimizing social welfare subject to this notion of fairness is NP-hard, we can efficiently construct a lottery over welfare-optimal outcomes that is fair in expectation. Moreover, we show that, when we are allowed to slightly relax fairness, we can efficiently compute a fair solution that is welfare-maximizing, but which may overspend the budget.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16688,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16688,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Divergence-Guided Simultaneous Speech Translation,Xinjie Chen;Kai Fan;Wei Luo;Linlin Zhang;Libo Zhao;Xinggao Liu;Zhongqiang Huang,"To achieve high-quality translation with low latency, a Simultaneous Speech Translation( SimulST) system relies on a policy module to decide whether to translate immediately or wait for additional streaming input, along with a translation model capable of effectively handling partial speech input. Prior research has tackled these components separately, either using ``wait-k policies based on fixed-length segments or detected word boundaries, or dynamic policies based on different strategies( e. g. , meaningful units) , while employing offline models for prefix-to-prefix translation. In this paper, we propose Divergence-Guided Simultaneous Speech Translation( DiG-SST) , a tightly integrated approach focusing on both translation quality and latency for streaming input. Specifically, we introduce a simple yet effective prefix-based strategy for training translation models with partial speech input, and develop an adaptive policy that makes read/write decisions for the translation model based on the expected divergence in translation distributions resulting from future input. Our experiments on multiple translation directions of the MuST-C benchmark demonstrate that our approach achieves a better trade-off between translation quality and latency compared to existing methods.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29733,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29733,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Natural Language Processing I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Document-Level Relation Extraction with Adaptive Thresholding and Localized Context Pooling,Wenxuan Zhou;Kevin Huang;Tengyu Ma;Jing Huang,"Document-level relation extraction( RE) poses new challenges compared to its sentence-level counterpart. One document commonly contains multiple entity pairs, and one entity pair occurs multiple times in the document associated with multiple possible relations. In this paper, we propose two novel techniques, adaptive thresholding and localized context pooling, to solve the multi-label and multi-entity problems. The adaptive thresholding replaces the global threshold for multi-label classification in the prior work with a learnable entities-dependent threshold. The localized context pooling directly transfers attention from pre-trained language models to locate relevant context that is useful to decide the relation. We experiment on three document-level RE benchmark datasets: DocRED, a recently released large-scale RE dataset, and two datasets CDRand GDA in the biomedical domain. Our ATLOP( Adaptive Thresholding and Localized cOntext Pooling) model achieves an F1 score of 63. 4, and also significantly outperforms existing models on both CDR and GDA. We have released our code at https://github. com/wzhouad/ATLOP.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17717,10.1609/aaai.v35i16.17717,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Does Explainable Artificial Intelligence Improve Human Decision-Making?,Yasmeen Alufaisan;Laura R. Marusich;Jonathan Z. Bakdash;Yan Zhou;Murat Kantarcioglu,"Explainable AI provides insights to users into the why for model predictions, offering potential for users to better understand and trust a model, and to recognize and correct AI predictions that are incorrect. Prior research on human and explainable AI interactions has focused on measures such as interpretability, trust, and usability of the explanation. There are mixed findings whether explainable AI can improve actual human decision-making and the ability to identify the problems with the underlying model. Using real datasets, we compare objective human decision accuracy without AI( control) , with an AI prediction( no explanation) , and AI prediction with explanation. We find providing any kind of AI prediction tends to improve user decision accuracy, but no conclusive evidence that explainable AI has a meaningful impact. Moreover, we observed the strongest predictor for human decision accuracy was AI accuracy and that users were somewhat able to detect when the AI was correct vs. incorrect, but this was not significantly affected by including an explanation. Our results indicate that, at least in some situations, the why information provided in explainable AI may not enhance user decision-making, and further research may be needed to understand how to integrate explainable AI into real systems.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16819,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16819,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Doubly Approximate Nearest Neighbor Classification,Weiwei Liu;Zhuanghua Liu;Ivor Tsang;Wenjie Zhang;Xuemin Lin,"Nonparametric classification models, such as K-Nearest Neighbor( KNN) , have become particularly powerful tools in machine learning and data mining, due to their simplicity and flexibility. However, the testing time of the KNN classifier becomes unacceptable and the KNNs performance deteriorates significantly when applied to data sets with millions of dimensions. We observe that state-of-the-art approximate nearest neighbor( ANN) methods aim to either reduce the number of distance comparisons based on tree structure or decrease the cost of distance computation by dimension reduction methods. In this paper, we propose a doubly approximate nearest neighbor classification strategy, which marries the two branches which compress the dimensions for decreasing distance computation cost as well as reduce the number of distance comparison instead of full scan. Under this strategy, we build a compressed dimensional tree( CD-Tree) to avoid unnecessary distance calculations. In each decision node, we propose a novel feature selection paradigm by optimizing the feature selection vector as well as the separator( indicator variables for splitting instances) with the maximum margin. An efficient algorithm is then developed to find the globally optimal solution with convergence guarantee. Furthermore, we also provide a data-dependent generalization error bound for our model, which reveals a new insight for the design of ANN classification algorithms. Our empirical studies show that our algorithm consistently obtains competitive or better classification results on all data sets, yet we can also achieve three orders of magnitude faster than state-of-the-art libraries on very high dimensions.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11690,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11690,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Doubly Perturbed Task Free Continual Learning,Byung Hyun Lee;Min-hwan Oh;Se Young Chun,"Task-free online continual learning( TF-CL) is a challenging problem where the model incrementally learns tasks without explicit task information. Although training with entire data from the past, present as well as future is considered as the gold standard, naive approaches in TF-CL with the current samples may be conflicted with learning with samples in the future, leading to catastrophic forgetting and poor plasticity. Thus, a proactive consideration of an unseen future sample in TF-CL becomes imperative. Motivated by this intuition, we propose a novel TF-CL framework considering future samples and show that injecting adversarial perturbations on both input data and decision-making is effective. Then, we propose a novel method named Doubly Perturbed Continual Learning( DPCL) to efficiently implement these input and decision-making perturbations. Specifically, for input perturbation, we propose an approximate perturbation method that injects noise into the input data as well as the feature vector and then interpolates the two perturbed samples. For decision-making process perturbation, we devise multiple stochastic classifiers. We also investigate a memory management scheme and learning rate scheduling reflecting our proposed double perturbations. We demonstrate that our proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art baseline methods by large margins on various TF-CL benchmarks.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29236,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29236,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DyETC: Dynamic Electronic Toll Collection for Traffic Congestion Alleviation,Haipeng Chen;Bo An;Guni Sharon;Josiah Hanna;Peter Stone;Chunyan Miao;Yeng Soh,"To alleviate traffic congestion in urban areas, electronic toll collection( ETC) systems are deployed all over the world. Despite the merits, tolls are usually pre-determined and fixed from day to day, which fail to consider traffic dynamics and thus have limited regulation effect when traffic conditions are abnormal. In this paper, we propose a novel dynamic ETC( DyETC) scheme which adjusts tolls to traffic conditions in realtime. The DyETC problem is formulated as a Markov decision process( MDP) , the solution of which is very challenging due to its 1) multi-dimensional state space, 2) multi-dimensional, continuous and bounded action space, and 3) time-dependent state and action values. Due to the complexity of the formulated MDP, existing methods cannot be applied to our problem. Therefore, we develop a novel algorithm, PG-beta, which makes three improvements to traditional policy gradient method by proposing 1) time-dependent value and policy functions, 2) Beta distribution policy function and 3) state abstraction. Experimental results show that, compared with existing ETC schemes, DyETC increases traffic volume by around 8%, and reduces travel time by around 14:6% during rush hour. Considering the total traffic volume in a traffic network, this contributes to a substantial increase to social welfare.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11337,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11337,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computational Sustainability and Artificial Intelligence,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Action Repetition for Deep Reinforcement Learning,Aravind Lakshminarayanan;Sahil Sharma;Balaraman Ravindran,"One of the long standing goals of Artificial Intelligence( AI) is to build cognitive agents which can perform complex tasks from raw sensory inputs without explicit supervision. Recent progress in combining Reinforcement Learning objective functions and Deep Learning architectures has achieved promising results for such tasks. An important aspect of such sequential decision making problems, which has largely been neglected, is for the agent to decide on the duration of time for which to commit to actions. Such action repetition is important for computational efficiency, which is necessary for the agent to respond in real-time to events( in applications such as self-driving cars). Action Repetition arises naturally in real life as well as simulated environments. The time scale of executing an action enables an agent( both humans and AI) to decide the granularity of control during task execution. Current state of the art Deep Reinforcement Learning models, whether they are off-policy or on-policy, consist of a framework with a static action repetition paradigm, wherein the action decided by the agent is repeated for a fixed number of time steps regardless of the contextual state while executing the task. In this paper, we propose a new framework - Dynamic Action Repetition which changes Action Repetition Rate( the time scale of repeating an action) from a hyper-parameter of an algorithm to a dynamically learnable quantity. At every decision-making step, our models allow the agent to commit to an action and the time scale of executing the action. We show empirically that such a dynamic time scale mechanism improves the performance on relatively harder games in the Atari 2600 domain, independent of the underlying Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithm used.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10918,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10918,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Automaton-Guided Reward Shaping for Monte Carlo Tree Search,Alvaro Velasquez;Brett Bissey;Lior Barak;Andre Beckus;Ismail Alkhouri;Daniel Melcer;George Atia,"Reinforcement learning and planning have been revolutionized in recent years, due in part to the mass adoption of deep convolutional neural networks and the resurgence of powerful methods to refine decision-making policies. However, the problem of sparse reward signals and their representation remains pervasive in many domains. While various rewardshaping mechanisms and imitation learning approaches have been proposed to mitigate this problem, the use of humanaided artificial rewards introduces human error, sub-optimal behavior, and a greater propensity for reward hacking. In this paper, we mitigate this by representing objectives as automata in order to define novel reward shaping functions over this structured representation. In doing so, we address the sparse rewards problem within a novel implementation of Monte Carlo Tree Search( MCTS) by proposing a reward shaping function which is updated dynamically to capture statistics on the utility of each automaton transition as it pertains to satisfying the goal of the agent. We further demonstrate that such automaton-guided reward shaping can be utilized to facilitate transfer learning between different environments when the objective is the same.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17427,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17427,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Control of Probabilistic Simple Temporal Networks,Michael Gao;Lindsay Popowski;Jim Boerkoel,"The controllability of a temporal network is defined as an agents ability to navigate around the uncertainty in its schedule and is well-studied for certain networks of temporal constraints. However, many interesting real-world problems can be better represented as Probabilistic Simple Temporal Networks( PSTNs) in which the uncertain durations are represented using potentially-unbounded probability density functions. This can make it inherently impossible to control for all eventualities. In this paper, we propose two new dynamic controllability algorithms that attempt to maximize the likelihood of successfully executing a schedule within a PSTN. The first approach, which we call Min-Loss DC, finds a dynamic scheduling strategy that minimizes loss of control by using a conflict-directed search to decide where to sacrifice the control in a way that optimizes overall success. The second approach, which we call Max-Gain DC, works in the other direction: it finds a dynamically controllable schedule and then attempts to progressively strengthen it by capturing additional uncertainty. Our approaches are the first known that work by finding maximally dynamically controllable schedules. We empirically compare our approaches against two existing PSTN offline dispatch approaches and one online approach and show that our Min-Loss DC algorithm outperforms the others in terms of maximizing execution success while maintaining competitive runtimes.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6538,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6538,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Controllability of Disjunctive Temporal Networks: Validation and Synthesis of Executable Strategies,Alessandro Cimatti;Andrea Micheli;Marco Roveri,"The Temporal Network with Uncertainty( TNU) modeling framework is used to represent temporal knowledge in presence of qualitative temporal uncertainty. Dynamic Controllability( DC) is the problem of deciding the existence of a strategy for scheduling the controllable time points of the network observing past happenings only. In this paper, we address the DC problem for a very general class of TNU, namely Disjunctive Temporal Network with Uncertainty. We make the following contributions. First, we define strategies in the form of an executable language; second, we propose the first decision procedure to check whether a given strategy is a solution for the DC problem; third we present an efficient algorithm for strategy synthesis based on techniques derived from Timed Games and Satisfiability Modulo Theory. The experimental evaluation shows that the approach is superior to the state-of-the-art.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10401,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10401,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Deep Neural Networks: Optimizing Accuracy-Efficiency Trade-Offs by Selective Execution,Lanlan Liu;Jia Deng,"We introduce Dynamic Deep Neural Networks( D2NN) , a new type of feed-forward deep neural network that allows selective execution. Given an input, only a subset of D2NN neurons are executed, and the particular subset is determined by the D2NN itself. By pruning unnecessary computation depending on input, D2NNs provide a way to improve computational efficiency. To achieve dynamic selective execution, a D2NN augments a feed-forward deep neural network( directed acyclic graph of differentiable modules) with controller modules. Each controller module is a sub-network whose output is a decision that controls whether other modules can execute. A D2NN is trained end to end. Both regular and controller modules in a D2NN are learnable and are jointly trained to optimize both accuracy and efficiency. Such training is achieved by integrating backpropagation with reinforcement learning. With extensive experiments of various D2NN architectures on image classification tasks, we demonstrate that D2NNs are general and flexible, and can effectively optimize accuracy-efficiency trade-offs.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11630,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11630,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Graph Representation for Occlusion Handling in Biometrics,Min Ren;Yunlong Wang;Zhenan Sun;Tieniu Tan,"The generalization ability of Convolutional neural networks( CNNs) for biometrics drops greatly due to the adverse effects of various occlusions. To this end, we propose a novel unified framework integrated the merits of both CNNs and graphical models to learn dynamic graph representations for occlusion problems in biometrics, called Dynamic Graph Representation( DGR). Convolutional features onto certain regions are re-crafted by a graph generator to establish the connections among the spatial parts of biometrics and build Feature Graphs based on these node representations. Each node of Feature Graphs corresponds to a specific part of the input image and the edges express the spatial relationships between parts. By analyzing the similarities between the nodes, the framework is able to adaptively remove the nodes representing the occluded parts. During dynamic graph matching, we propose a novel strategy to measure the distances of both nodes and adjacent matrixes. In this way, the proposed method is more convincing than CNNs-based methods because the dynamic graph method implies a more illustrative and reasonable inference of the biometrics decision. Experiments conducted on iris and face demonstrate the superiority of the proposed framework, which boosts the accuracy of occluded biometrics recognition by a large margin comparing with baseline methods.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6869,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6869,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Learning of Sequential Choice Bandit Problem under Marketing Fatigue,Junyu Cao;Wei Sun,"Motivated by the observation that overexposure to unwanted marketing activities leads to customer dissatisfaction, we consider a setting where a platform offers a sequence of messages to its users and is penalized when users abandon the platform due to marketing fatigue. We propose a novel sequential choice model to capture multiple interactions taking place between the platform and its user: Upon receiving a message, a user decides on one of the three actions: accept the message, skip and receive the next message, or abandon the platform. Based on user feedback, the platform dynamically learns users\'92 abandonment distribution and their valuations of messages to determine the length of the sequence and the order of the messages, while maximizing the cumulative payoff over a horizon of length T. We refer to this online learning task as the sequential choice bandit problem. For the offline combinatorial optimization problem, we show a polynomialtime algorithm. For the online problem, we propose an algorithm that balances exploration and exploitation, and characterize its regret bound. Lastly, we demonstrate how to extend the model with user contexts to incorporate personalization.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4198,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013264,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Matching via Weighted Myopia with Application to Kidney Exchange,John Dickerson;Ariel Procaccia;Tuomas Sandholm,"In many dynamic matching applications \'97 especially high-stakes ones \'97 the competitive ratios of prior-free online algorithms are unacceptably poor. The algorithm should take distributional information about possible futures into account in deciding what action to take now. This is typically done by drawing sample trajectories of possible futures at each time period, but may require a prohibitively large number of trajectories or prohibitive memory and/or computation to decide what action to take. Instead, we propose to learn potentials of elements( e. g. , vertices) of the current problem. Then, at run time, we simply run an offline matching algorithm at each time period, but subtracting out in the objective the potentials of the elements used up in the matching. We apply the approach to kidney exchange. Kidney exchanges enable willing but incompatible patient-donor pairs( vertices) to swap donors. These swaps typically include cycles longer than two pairs and chains triggered by altruistic donors. Fielded exchanges currently match myopically, maximizing the number of patients who get kidneys in an offline fashion at each time period. Myopic matching is sub-optimal; the clearing problem is dynamic since patients, donors, and altruists appear and expire over time. We theoretically compare the power of using potentials on increasingly large elements: vertices, edges, cycles, and the entire graph( optimum). Then, experiments show that by learning vertex potentials, our algorithm matches more patients than the current practice of clearing myopically. It scales to exchanges orders of magnitude beyond those handled by the prior dynamic algorithm.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8252,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8252,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Network Pruning with Interpretable Layerwise Channel Selection,Yulong Wang;Xiaolu Zhang;Xiaolin Hu;Bo Zhang;Hang Su,"Dynamic network pruning achieves runtime acceleration by dynamically determining the inference paths based on different inputs. However, previous methods directly generate continuous decision values for each weight channel, which cannot reflect a clear and interpretable pruning process. In this paper, we propose to explicitly model the discrete weight channel selections, which encourages more diverse weights utilization, and achieves more sparse runtime inference paths. Meanwhile, with the help of interpretable layerwise channel selections in the dynamic network, we can visualize the network decision paths explicitly for model interpretability. We observe that there are clear differences in the layerwise decisions between normal and adversarial examples. Therefore, we propose a novel adversarial example detection algorithm by discriminating the runtime decision features. Experiments show that our dynamic network achieves higher prediction accuracy under the similar computing budgets on CIFAR10 and ImageNet datasets compared to traditional static pruning methods and other dynamic pruning approaches. The proposed adversarial detection algorithm can significantly improve the state-of-the-art detection rate across multiple attacks, which provides an opportunity to build an interpretable and robust model.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6098,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6098,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Pricing with Volume Discounts in Online Settings,Marco Mussi;Gianmarco Genalti;Alessandro Nuara;Francesco Trov\'f3;Marcello Restelli;Nicola Gatti,"According to the main international reports, more pervasive industrial and business-process automation, thanks to machine learning and advanced analytic tools, will unlock more than 14 trillion USD worldwide annually by 2030. In the specific case of pricing problems, which constitute the class of problems we investigate in this paper, the estimated unlocked value will be about 0. 5 trillion USD per year. In particular, this paper focuses on pricing in e-commerce when the objective function is profit maximization and only transaction data are available. This setting is one of the most common in real-world applications. Our work aims to find a pricing strategy that allows defining optimal prices at different volume thresholds to serve different classes of users. Furthermore, we face the major challenge, common in real-world settings, of dealing with limited data available. We design a two-phase online learning algorithm, namely PVD-B, capable of exploiting the data incrementally in an online fashion. The algorithm first estimates the demand curve and retrieves the optimal average price, and subsequently it offers discounts to differentiate the prices for each volume threshold. We ran a real-world 4-month-long A/B testing experiment in collaboration with an Italian e-commerce company, in which our algorithm PVD-B - corresponding to A configuration - has been compared with human pricing specialists - corresponding to B configuration. At the end of the experiment, our algorithm produced a total turnover of about 300 KEuros, outperforming the B configuration performance by about 55%. The Italian company we collaborated with decided to adopt our algorithm for more than 1, 200 products since January 2022.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26845,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26845,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on deployed Highly Innovative Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamic Thresholding and Pruning for Regret Minimization,Noam Brown;Christian Kroer;Tuomas Sandholm,"Regret minimization is widely used in determining strategies for imperfect-information games and in online learning. In large games, computing the regrets associated with a single iteration can be slow. For this reason, pruning \'97 in which parts of the decision tree are not traversed in every iteration \'97 has emerged as an essential method for speeding up iterations in large games. The ability to prune is a primary reason why the Counterfactual Regret Minimization( CFR) algorithm using regret matching has emerged as the most popular iterative algorithm for imperfect-information games, despite its relatively poor convergence bound. In this paper, we introduce dynamic thresholding, in which a threshold is set at every iteration such that any action in the decision tree with probability below the threshold is set to zero probability. This enables pruning for the first time in a wide range of algorithms. We prove that dynamic thresholding can be applied to Hedge while increasing its convergence bound by only a constant factor in terms of number of iterations. Experiments demonstrate a substantial improvement in performance for Hedge as well as the excessive gap technique.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10603,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10603,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Dynamically Constructed( PO) MDPs for Adaptive Robot Planning,Shiqi Zhang;Piyush Khandelwal;Peter Stone,"To operate in human-robot coexisting environments, intelligent robots need to simultaneously reason with commonsense knowledge and plan under uncertainty. Markov decision processes( MDPs) and partially observable MDPs( POMDPs) , are good at planning under uncertainty toward maximizing long-term rewards; P-LOG, a declarative programming language under Answer Set semantics, is strong in commonsense reasoning. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm called iCORPP to dynamically reason about, and construct( PO) MDPs using P-LOG. iCORPP successfully shields exogenous domain attributes from( PO) MDPs, which limits computational complexity and enables( PO) MDPs to adapt to the value changes these attributes produce. We conduct a number of experimental trials using two example problems in simulation and demonstrate iCORPP on a real robot. Results show significant improvements compared to competitive baselines.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11042,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11042,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Robotics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,DyS: A Framework for Mixture Models in Quantification,Andr\'e9 Maletzke;Denis dos Reis;Everton Cherman;Gustavo Batista,"Quantification is an expanding research topic in Machine Learning literature. While in classification we are interested in obtaining the class of individual observations, in quantification we want to estimate the total number of instances that belong to each class. This subtle difference allows the development of several algorithms that incur smaller and more consistent errors than counting the classes issued by a classifier. Among such new quantification methods, one particular family stands out due to its accuracy, simplicity, and ability to operate with imbalanced training samples: Mixture Models( MM). Despite these desirable traits, MM, as a class of algorithms, lacks a more in-depth understanding concerning the influence of internal parameters on its performance. In this paper, we generalize MM with a base framework called DyS: Distribution y-Similarity. With this framework, we perform a thorough evaluation of the most critical design decisions of MM models. For instance, we assess 15 dissimilarity functions to compare histograms with varying numbers of bins from 2 to 110 and, for the first time, make a connection between quantification accuracy and test sample size, with experiments covering 24 public benchmark datasets. We conclude that, when tuned, Tops\'f8e is the histogram distance function that consistently leads to smaller quantification errors and, therefore, is recommended to general use, notwithstanding Hellinger Distance\'92s popularity. To rid MM models of the dependency on a choice for the number of histogram bins, we introduce two dissimilarity functions that can operate directly on observations. We show that SORD, one of such measures, presents performance that is slightly inferior to the tuned Tops\'f8e, while not requiring the sensible parameterization of the number of bins.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4376,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014552,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,E2E-AT: A Unified Framework for Tackling Uncertainty in Task-Aware End-to-End Learning,Wangkun Xu;Jianhong Wang;Fei Teng,"Successful machine learning involves a complete pipeline of data, model, and downstream applications. Instead of treating them separately, there has been a prominent increase of attention within the constrained optimization( CO) and machine learning( ML) communities towards combining prediction and optimization models. The so-called end-to-end( E2E) learning captures the task-based objective for which they will be used for decision making. Although a large variety of E2E algorithms have been presented, it has not been fully investigated how to systematically address uncertainties involved in such models. Most of the existing work considers the uncertainties of ML in the input space and improves robustness through adversarial training. We extend this idea to E2E learning and prove that there is a robustness certification procedure by solving augmented integer programming. Furthermore, we show that neglecting the uncertainty of COs during training causes a new trigger for generalization errors. To include all these components, we propose a unified framework that covers the uncertainties emerging in both the input feature space of the ML models and the COs. The framework is described as a robust optimization problem and is practically solved via end-to-end adversarial training( E2E-AT). Finally, the performance of E2E-AT is evaluated by a real-world end-to-end power system operation problem, including load forecasting and sequential scheduling tasks.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29556,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29556,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Early Detection of Extreme Storm Tide Events Using Multimodal Data Processing,Marcel Barros;Andressa Pinto;Andres Monroy;Felipe Moreno;Jefferson Coelho;Aldomar Pietro Silva;Caio Fabricio Deberaldini Netto;Jos\'e9 Roberto Leite;Marlon Mathias;Eduardo Tannuri;Artur Jordao;Edson Gomi;Fabio Cozman;Marcelo Dottori;Anna Helena Reali Costa,"Sea-level rise is a well-known consequence of climate change. Several studies have estimated the social and economic impact of the increase in extreme flooding. An efficient way to mitigate its consequences is the development of a flood alert and prediction system, based on high-resolution numerical models and robust sensing networks. However, current models use various simplifying assumptions that compromise accuracy to ensure solvability within a reasonable timeframe, hindering more regular and cost-effective forecasts for various locations along the shoreline. To address these issues, this work proposes a hybrid model for multimodal data processing that combines physics-based numerical simulations, data obtained from a network of sensors, and satellite images to provide refined wave and sea-surface height forecasts, with real results obtained in a critical location within the Port of Santos( the largest port in Latin America). Our approach exhibits faster convergence than data-driven models while achieving more accurate predictions. Moreover, the model handles irregularly sampled time series and missing data without the need for complex preprocessing mechanisms or data imputation while keeping low computational costs through a combination of time encoding, recurrent and graph neural networks. Enabling raw sensor data to be easily combined with existing physics-based models opens up new possibilities for accurate extreme storm tide events forecast systems that enhance community safety and aid policymakers in their decision-making processes.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30194,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30194,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EarnHFT: Efficient Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning for High Frequency Trading,Molei Qin;Shuo Sun;Wentao Zhang;Haochong Xia;Xinrun Wang;Bo An,"High-frequency trading( HFT) is using computer algorithms to make trading decisions in short time scales( e. g. , second-level) , which is widely used in the Cryptocurrency( Crypto) market, ( e. g. , Bitcoin). Reinforcement learning( RL) in financial research has shown stellar performance on many quantitative trading tasks. However, most methods focus on low-frequency trading, e. g. , day-level, which cannot be directly applied to HFT because of two challenges. First, RL for HFT involves dealing with extremely long trajectories( e. g. , 2. 4 million steps per month) , which is hard to optimize and evaluate. Second, the dramatic price fluctuations and market trend changes of Crypto make existing algorithms fail to maintain satisfactory performances. To tackle these challenges, we propose an Efficient hieArchical Reinforcement learNing method for High Frequency Trading( EarnHFT) , a novel three-stage hierarchical RL framework for HFT. In stage I, we compute a Q-teacher, i. e. , the optimal action value based on dynamic programming, for enhancing the performance and training efficiency of second level RL agents. In stage II, we construct a pool of diverse RL agents for different market trends, distinguished by return rates, where hundreds of RL agents are trained with different preferences of return rates and only a tiny fraction of them will be selected into the pool based on their profitability. In stage III, we train a minute-level router which dynamically picks a second-level agent from the pool to achieve stable performance across different markets. Through extensive experiments in various market trends on Crypto markets in a high-fidelity simulation trading environment, we demonstrate that EarnHFT significantly outperforms 6 state-of-art baselines in 6 popular financial criteria, exceeding the runner-up by 30% in profitability.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29384,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29384,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAT: Towards Long-Tailed Out-of-Distribution Detection,Tong Wei;Bo-Lin Wang;Min-Ling Zhang,"Despite recent advancements in out-of-distribution( OOD) detection, most current studies assume a class-balanced in-distribution training dataset, which is rarely the case in real-world scenarios. This paper addresses the challenging task of long-tailed OOD detection, where the in-distribution data follows a long-tailed class distribution. The main difficulty lies in distinguishing OOD data from samples belonging to the tail classes, as the ability of a classifier to detect OOD instances is not strongly correlated with its accuracy on the in-distribution classes. To overcome this issue, we propose two simple ideas:( 1) Expanding the in-distribution class space by introducing multiple abstention classes. This approach allows us to build a detector with clear decision boundaries by training on OOD data using virtual labels. ( 2) Augmenting the context-limited tail classes by overlaying images onto the context-rich OOD data. This technique encourages the model to pay more attention to the discriminative features of the tail classes. We provide a clue for separating in-distribution and OOD data by analyzing gradient noise. Through extensive experiments, we demonstrate that our method outperforms the current state-of-the-art on various benchmark datasets. Moreover, our method can be used as an add-on for existing long-tail learning approaches, significantly enhancing their OOD detection performance. Code is available at: https://github. com/Stomach-ache/Long-Tailed-OOD-Detection.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29508,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29508,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EeLISA: Combating Global Warming Through the Rapid Analysis of Eelgrass Wasting Disease,Brendan H. Rappazzo;Morgan E. Eisenlord;Olivia J. Graham;Lillian R. Aoki;Phoebe D. Dawkins;Drew Harvell;Carla Gomes,"Global warming is the greatest threat facing our planet, and is causing environmental disturbance at an unprecedented scale. We are strongly positioned to leverage the advancements of Artificial Intelligence( AI) and Machine Learning( ML) which provide humanity, for the first time in history, an analysis and decision making tool at massive scale. Strong evidence supports that global warming is contributing to marine ecosystem decline, including eelgrass habitat. Eelgrass is affected by an opportunistic marine pathogen and infections are likely exacerbated by rising ocean temperatures. The necessary disease analysis required to inform conservation priorities is incredibly laborious, and acts as a significant bottleneck for research. To this end, we developed EeLISA( Eelgrass Lesion Image Segmentation Application). EeLISA enables ecologist experts to train a segmentation module to perform this crucial analysis at human level accuracy, while minimizing their labeling time and integrating into their existing workflow. EeLISA has been deployed for over 16 months, and has facilitated the preparation of four manuscripts including a critical eelgrass study ranging from Southern California to Alaska. These studies, utilizing EeLISA, have led to scientific insight and discovery in marine disease ecology.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17779,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17779,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Highly Innovative Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Effect Size Estimation for Duration Recommendation in Online Experiments: Leveraging Hierarchical Models and Objective Utility Approaches,Yu Liu;Runzhe Wan;James McQueen;Doug Hains;Jinxiang Gu;Rui Song,"The selection of the assumed effect size( AES) critically determines the duration of an experiment, and hence its accuracy and efficiency. Traditionally, experimenters determine AES based on domain knowledge. However, this method becomes impractical for online experimentation services managing numerous experiments, and a more automated approach is hence of great demand. We initiate the study of data-driven AES selection in for online experimentation services by introducing two solutions. The first employs a three-layer Gaussian Mixture Model considering the heteroskedasticity across experiments, and it seeks to estimate the true expected effect size among positive experiments. The second method, grounded in utility theory, aims to determine the optimal effect size by striking a balance between the experiments cost and the precision of decision-making. Through comparisons with baseline methods using both simulated and real data, we showcase the superior performance of the proposed approaches.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29313,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29313,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Effective Open Intent Classification with K-center Contrastive Learning and Adjustable Decision Boundary,Xiaokang Liu;Jianquan Li;Jingjing Mu;Min Yang;Ruifeng Xu;Benyou Wang,"Open intent classification, which aims to correctly classify the known intents into their corresponding classes while identifying the new unknown( open) intents, is an essential but challenging task in dialogue systems. In this paper, we introduce novel K-center contrastive learning and adjustable decision boundary learning( CLAB) to improve the effectiveness of open intent classification. First, we pre-train a feature encoder on the labeled training instances, which transfers knowledge from known intents to unknown intents. Specifically, we devise a K-center contrastive learning algorithm to learn discriminative and balanced intent features, improving the generalization of the model for recognizing open intents. Second, we devise an adjustable decision boundary learning method with expanding and shrinking( ADBES) to determine the suitable decision conditions. Concretely, we learn a decision boundary for each known intent class, which consists of a decision center and the radius of the decision boundary. We then expand the radius of the decision boundary to accommodate more in-class instances if the out-of-class instances are far from the decision boundary; otherwise, we shrink the radius of the decision boundary. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets clearly demonstrate the effectiveness of our method for open intent classification. For reproducibility, we submit the code at: https://github. com/lxk00/CLAP",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26560,10.1609/aaai.v37i11.26560,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech & Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Efficient Approximate Value Iteration for Continuous Gaussian POMDPs,Jur van den Berg;Sachin Patil;Ron Alterovitz,"We introduce a highly efficient method for solving continuous partially-observable Markov decision processes( POMDPs) in which beliefs can be modeled using Gaussian distributions over the state space. Our method enables fast solutions to sequential decision making under uncertainty for a variety of problems involving noisy or incomplete observations and stochastic actions. We present an efficient approach to compute locally-valid approximations to the value function over continuous spaces in time polynomial( O[n^4]) in the dimension n of the state space. To directly tackle the intractability of solving general POMDPs, we leverage the assumption that beliefs are Gaussian distributions over the state space, approximate the belief update using an extended Kalman filter( EKF) , and represent the value function by a function that is quadratic in the mean and linear in the variance of the belief. Our approach iterates towards a linear control policy over the state space that is locally-optimal with respect to a user defined cost function, and is approximately valid in the vicinity of a nominal trajectory through belief space. We demonstrate the scalability and potential of our approach on problems inspired by robot navigation under uncertainty for state spaces of up to 128 dimensions.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8371,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8371,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Reasoning about Plans, Processes and Actions",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Efficient Inference of Optimal Decision Trees,Florent Avellaneda,"Inferring a decision tree from a given dataset is a classic problem in machine learning. This problem consists of building, from a labelled dataset, a tree where each node corresponds to a class and a path between the tree root and a leaf corresponds to a conjunction of features to be satisfied in this class. Following the principle of parsimony, we want to infer a minimal tree consistent with the dataset. Unfortunately, inferring an optimal decision tree is NP-complete for several definitions of optimality. For this reason, the majority of existing approaches rely on heuristics, and the few existing exact approaches do not work on large datasets. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for inferring an optimal decision tree with a minimum depth based on the incremental generation of Boolean formulas. The experimental results indicate that it scales sufficiently well and the time it takes to run grows slowly with the size of datasets.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5717,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5717,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Efficient Learning in Polyhedral Games via Best-Response Oracles,Darshan Chakrabarti;Gabriele Farina;Christian Kroer,"We study online learning and equilibrium computation in games with polyhedral decision sets, a property shared by normal-form games( NFGs) and extensive-form games( EFGs) , when the learning agent is restricted to utilizing a best-response oracle. We show how to achieve constant regret in zero-sum games and O( T^0. 25) regret in general-sum games while using only O( log t) best-response queries at a given iteration t, thus improving over the best prior result, which required O( T) queries per iteration. Moreover, our framework yields the first last-iterate convergence guarantees for self-play with best-response oracles in zero-sum games. This convergence occurs at a linear rate, though with a condition-number dependence. We go on to show a O( T^( -0. 5) ) best-iterate convergence rate without such a dependence. Our results build on linear-rate convergence results for variants of the Frank-Wolfe( FW) algorithm for strongly convex and smooth minimization problems over polyhedral domains. These FW results depend on a condition number of the polytope, known as facial distance. In order to enable application to settings such as EFGs, we show two broad new results: 1) the facial distance for polytopes in standard form is at least \uc0\u947 /k where \u947  is the minimum value of a nonzero coordinate of a vertex of the polytope and k\u8804 n is the number of tight inequality constraints in the optimal face, and 2) the facial distance for polytopes of the form Ax=b, Cx\u8804 d, x\u8805 0 where x\u8712 R^n, C\u8805 0 is a nonzero integral matrix, and d\u8805 0, is at least 1/( c\u8730 n) , where c is the infinity norm of C. This yields the first such results for several problems such as sequence-form polytopes, flow polytopes, and matching polytopes.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28812,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28812,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Efficient Online Crowdsourcing with Complex Annotations,Reshef Meir;Viet-An Nguyen;Xu Chen;Jagdish Ramakrishnan;Udi Weinsberg,"Crowdsourcing platforms use various truth discovery algorithms to aggregate annotations from multiple labelers. In an online setting, however, the main challenge is to decide whether to ask for more annotations for each item to efficiently trade off cost( i. e. , the number of annotations) for quality of the aggregated annotations. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for general complex annotation( such as bounding boxes and taxonomy paths) , that works in an online crowdsourcing setting. We prove that the expected average similarity of a labeler is linear in their accuracy conditional on the reported label. This enables us to infer reported label accuracy in a broad range of scenarios. We conduct extensive evaluations on real-world crowdsourcing data from Meta and show the effectiveness of our proposed online algorithms in improving the cost-quality trade-off.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28876,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28876,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Efficient Toxic Content Detection by Bootstrapping and Distilling Large Language Models,Jiang Zhang;Qiong Wu;Yiming Xu;Cheng Cao;Zheng Du;Konstantinos Psounis,"Toxic content detection is crucial for online services to remove inappropriate content that violates community standards. To automate the detection process, prior works have proposed varieties of machine learning( ML) approaches to train Language Models( LMs) for toxic content detection. However, both their accuracy and transferability across datasets are limited. Recently, Large Language Models( LLMs) have shown promise in toxic content detection due to their superior zero-shot and few-shot in-context learning ability as well as broad transferability on ML tasks. However, efficiently designing prompts for LLMs remains challenging. Moreover, the high run-time cost of LLMs may hinder their deployments in production. To address these challenges, in this work, we propose BD-LLM, a novel and efficient approach to bootstrapping and distilling LLMs for toxic content detection. Specifically, we design a novel prompting method named Decision-Tree-of-Thought( DToT) to bootstrap LLMs detection performance and extract high-quality rationales. DToT can automatically select more fine-grained context to re-prompt LLMs when their responses lack confidence. Additionally, we use the rationales extracted via DToT to fine-tune student LMs. Our experimental results on various datasets demonstrate that DToT can improve the accuracy of LLMs by up to 4. 6%. Furthermore, student LMs fine-tuned with rationales extracted via DToT outperform baselines on all datasets with up to 16. 9% accuracy improvement, while being more than 60x smaller than conventional LLMs. Finally, we observe that student LMs fine-tuned with rationales exhibit better cross-dataset transferability.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30178,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30178,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Efficiently Approximating the Pareto Frontier: Hydropower Dam Placement in the Amazon Basin,Xiaojian Wu;Jonathan Gomes-Selman;Qinru Shi;Yexiang Xue;Roosevelt Garcia-Villacorta;Elizabeth Anderson;Suresh Sethi;Scott Steinschneider;Alexander Flecker;Carla Gomes,"Real-world problems are often not fully characterized by a single optimal solution, as they frequently involve multiple competing objectives; it is therefore important to identify the so-called Pareto frontier, which captures solution trade-offs. We propose a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme based on Dynamic Programming( DP) for computing a polynomially succinct curve that approximates the Pareto frontier to within an arbitrarily small epsilon > 0 on tree-structured networks. Given a set of objectives, our approximation scheme runs in time polynomial in the size of the instance and 1/epsilon. We also propose a Mixed Integer Programming( MIP) scheme to approximate the Pareto frontier. The DP and MIP Pareto frontier approaches have complementary strengths and are surprisingly effective. We provide empirical results showing that our methods outperform other approaches in efficiency and accuracy. Our work is motivated by a problem in computational sustainability concerning the proliferation of hydropower dams throughout the Amazon basin. Our goal is to support decision-makers in evaluating impacted ecosystem services on the full scale of the Amazon basin. Our work is general and can be applied to approximate the Pareto frontier of a variety of multiobjective problems on tree-structured networks.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11347,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11347,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Computational Sustainability and Artificial Intelligence,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ElGolog: A High-Level Programming Language with Memory of the Execution History,Giuseppe De Giacomo;Yves Lesp\'e9rance;Eugenia Ternovska,"Most programming languages only support tests that refer exclusively to the current state. This applies even to high-level programming languages based on the situation calculus such as Golog. The result is that additional variables/fluents/data structures must be introduced to track conditions that the program uses in tests to make decisions. In this paper, drawing inspiration from McCarthys Elephant 2000, we propose an extended version of Golog, called ElGolog, that supports rich tests about the execution history, where tests are expressed in a first-order variant of two-way linear dynamic logic that uses ElGolog programs with converse. We show that in spite of rich tests, ElGolog shares key features with Golog, including a sematics based on macroexpansion into situation calculus formulas, upon which regression can still be applied. We also show that like Golog, our extended language can easily be implemented in ElGolog.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5669,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5669,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Eliciting Honest Information from Authors Using Sequential Review,Yichi Zhang;Grant Schoenebeck;Weijie Su,"In the setting of conference peer review, the conference aims to accept high-quality papers and reject low-quality papers based on noisy review scores. A recent work proposes the isotonic mechanism, which can elicit the ranking of paper qualities from an author with multiple submissions to help improve the conferences decisions. However, the isotonic mechanism relies on the assumption that the authors utility is both an increasing and a convex function with respect to the review score, which is often violated in realistic settings( e. g. ~when authors aim to maximize the number of accepted papers). In this paper, we propose a sequential review mechanism that can truthfully elicit the ranking information from authors while only assuming the agents utility is increasing with respect to the true quality of her accepted papers. The key idea is to review the papers of an author in a sequence based on the provided ranking and conditioning the review of the next paper on the review scores of the previous papers. Advantages of the sequential review mechanism include: 1) eliciting truthful ranking information in a more realistic setting than prior work; 2) reducing the reviewing workload and increasing the average quality of papers being reviewed; 3) incentivizing authors to write fewer papers of higher quality.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28860,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28860,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Eliminating Latent Discrimination: Train Then Mask,Soheil Ghili;Ehsan Kazemi;Amin Karbasi,"How can we control for latent discrimination in predictive models? How can we provably remove it? Such questions are at the heart of algorithmic fairness and its impacts on society. In this paper, we define a new operational fairness criteria, inspired by the well-understood notion of omitted variable-bias in statistics and econometrics. Our notion of fairness effectively controls for sensitive features and provides diagnostics for deviations from fair decision making. We then establish analytical and algorithmic results about the existence of a fair classifier in the context of supervised learning. Our results readily imply a simple, but rather counter-intuitive, strategy for eliminating latent discrimination. In order to prevent other features proxying for sensitive features, we need to include sensitive features in the training phase, but exclude them in the test/evaluation phase while controlling for their effects. We evaluate the performance of our algorithm on several realworld datasets and show how fairness for these datasets can be improved with a very small loss in accuracy.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4251,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013672,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Eliminating the Impossible, Whatever Remains Must Be True: On Extracting and Applying Background Knowledge in the Context of Formal Explanations",Jinqiang Yu;Alexey Ignatiev;Peter J. Stuckey;Nina Narodytska;Joao Marques-Silva,"The rise of AI methods to make predictions and decisions has led to a pressing need for more explainable artificial intelligence( XAI) methods. One common approach for XAI is to produce a post-hoc explanation, explaining why a black box ML model made a certain prediction. Formal approaches to post-hoc explanations provide succinct reasons for why a prediction was made, as well as why not another prediction was made. But these approaches assume that features are independent and uniformly distributed. While this means that \'93why\'94 explanations are correct, they may be longer than required. It also means the \'93why not\'94 explanations may be suspect as the counterexamples they rely on may not be meaningful. In this paper, we show how one can apply background knowledge to give more succinct \'93why\'94 formal explanations, that are presumably easier to interpret by humans, and give more accurate \'93why not\'94 explanations. In addition, we show how to use existing rule induction techniques to efficiently extract background information from a dataset.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25528,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25528,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Embedded Bandits for Large-Scale Black-Box Optimization,Abdullah Al-Dujaili;S. Suresh,"Random embedding has been applied with empirical success to large-scale black-box optimization problems with low effective dimensions. This paper proposes the EmbeddedHunter algorithm, which incorporates the technique in a hierarchical stochastic bandit setting, following the optimism in the face of uncertainty principle and breaking away from the multiple-run framework in which random embedding has been conventionally applied similar to stochastic black-box optimization solvers. Our proposition is motivated by the bounded mean variation in the objective value for a low-dimensional point projected randomly into the decision space of Lipschitz-continuous problems. In essence, the EmbeddedHunter algorithm expands optimistically a partitioning tree over a low-dimensional \'97 equal to the effective dimension of the problem \'97search space based on a bounded number of random embeddings of sampled points from the low-dimensional space. In contrast to the probabilistic theoretical guarantees of multiple-run random-embedding algorithms, the finite-time analysis of the proposed algorithm presents a theoretical upper bound on the regret as a function of the algorithms number of iterations. Furthermore, numerical experiments were conducted to validate its performance. The results show a clear performance gain over recently proposed random embedding methods for large-scale problems, provided the intrinsic dimensionality is low.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10650,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10650,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Embedding a Long Short-Term Memory Network in a Constraint Programming Framework for Tomato Greenhouse Optimisation,Dirk van Bokkem;Max van den Hemel;Sebastijan Duman\uc0\u269 i\u263 ;Neil Yorke-Smith,"Increasing global food demand, accompanied by the limited number of expert growers, brings the need for more sustainable and efficient horticulture. The controlled environment of greenhouses enable data collection and precise control. For optimally controlling the greenhouse climate, a grower not only looks at crop production, but rather aims at maximising the profit. However this is a complex, long term optimisation task. In this paper, Constraint Programming( CP) is applied to task of optimal greenhouse economic control, by leveraging a learned greenhouse climate model through a CP embedding. In collaboration with an industrial partner, we demonstrate how to model the greenhouse climate with an LSTM model, embed this LSTM into a CP optimisation framework, and optimise the expected profit of the grower. This data-to-decision pipeline is being integrated into a decision support system for multiple greenhouses in the Netherlands.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26867,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26867,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Encoder-Decoder Based Unified Semantic Role Labeling with Label-Aware Syntax,Hao Fei;Fei Li;Bobo Li;Donghong Ji,"Currently the unified semantic role labeling( SRL) that achieves predicate identification and argument role labeling in an end-to-end manner has received growing interests. Recent works show that leveraging the syntax knowledge significantly enhances the SRL performances. In this paper, we investigate a novel unified SRL framework based on the sequence-to-sequence architecture with double enhancement in both the encoder and decoder sides. In the encoder side, we propose a novel label-aware graph convolutional network( LA-GCN) to encode both the syntactic dependent arcs and labels into BERT-based word representations. In the decoder side, we creatively design a pointer-network-based model for detecting predicates, arguments and roles jointly. Our pointer-net decoder is able to make decisions by consulting all the input elements in a global view, and meanwhile it is syntactic-aware by incorporating the syntax information from LA-GCN. Besides, a high-order interacted attention is introduced into the decoder for leveraging previously recognized triplets to help the current decision. Empirical experiments show that our framework significantly outperforms all existing graph-based methods on the CoNLL09 and Universal Proposition Bank datasets. In-depth analysis demonstrates that our model can effectively capture the correlations between syntactic and SRL structures.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17514,10.1609/aaai.v35i14.17514,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Encoding Human Domain Knowledge to Warm Start Reinforcement Learning,Andrew Silva;Matthew Gombolay,"Deep reinforcement learning has been successful in a variety of tasks, such as game playing and robotic manipulation. However, attempting to learn tabula rasa disregards the logical structure of many domains as well as the wealth of readily available knowledge from domain experts that could help warm start the learning process. We present a novel reinforcement learning technique that allows for intelligent initialization of a neural network weights and architecture. Our approach permits the encoding domain knowledge directly into a neural decision tree, and improves upon that knowledge with policy gradient updates. We empirically validate our approach on two OpenAI Gym tasks and two modified StarCraft 2 tasks, showing that our novel architecture outperforms multilayer-perceptron and recurrent architectures. Our knowledge-based framework finds superior policies compared to imitation learning-based and prior knowledge-based approaches. Importantly, we demonstrate that our approach can be used by untrained humans to initially provide >80% increase in expected reward relative to baselines prior to training( p < 0. 001) , which results in a >60% increase in expected reward after policy optimization( p = 0. 011).",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16638,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16638,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track Focus Area on Neuro-Symbolic AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Encoding Multi-Valued Decision Diagram Constraints as Binary Constraint Trees,Ruiwei Wang;Roland H.C. Yap,"Ordered Multi-valued Decision Diagram( MDD) is a compact representation used to model various constraints, such as regular constraints and table constraints. It can be particularly useful for representing ad-hoc problem specific constraints. Many algorithms have been proposed to enforce Generalized Arc Consistency( GAC) on MDD constraints. In this paper, we introduce a new compact representation called Binary Constraint Tree( BCT). We propose tree binary encodings to transform any MDD constraint into a BCT constraint. We also present a specialized algorithm enforcing GAC on the BCT constraint resulting from a MDD constraint. Experimental results on a large set of benchmarks show that the BCT GAC algorithm can significantly outperform state-of-the-art MDD as well as table GAC algorithms.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20300,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20300,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,End-to-End Deep Reinforcement Learning for Conversation Disentanglement,Karan Bhukar;Harshit Kumar;Dinesh Raghu;Ajay Gupta,"Collaborative Communication platforms( e. g. , Slack) support multi-party conversations which contain a large number of messages on shared channels. Multiple conversations intermingle within these messages. The task of conversation disentanglement is to cluster these intermingled messages into conversations. Existing approaches are trained using loss functions that optimize only local decisions, i. e. predicting reply-to links for each message and thereby creating clusters of conversations. In this work, we propose an end-to-end reinforcement learning( RL) approach that directly optimizes a global metric. We observe that using existing global metrics such as variation of information and adjusted rand index as a reward for the RL agent deteriorates its performance. This behaviour is because these metrics completely ignore the reply-to links between messages( local decisions) during reward computation. Therefore, we propose a novel thread-level reward function that captures the global metric without ignoring the local decisions. Through experiments on the Ubuntu IRC dataset, we demonstrate that the proposed RL model improves the performance on both link-level and conversation-level metrics.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26480,10.1609/aaai.v37i11.26480,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech & Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,End-to-End Entity Linking with Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning,Lihan Chen;Tinghui Zhu;Jingping Liu;Jiaqing Liang;Yanghua Xiao,"Entity linking( EL) is the task of linking the text segments to the referring entities in the knowledge graph, typically decomposed into mention detection, and entity disambiguation. Compared to traditional methods treating the two tasks separately, recent end-to-end entity linking methods exploit the mutual dependency between mentions and entities to achieve better performance. However, existing end-to-end EL methods have problems utilizing the dependency of mentions and entities in the task. To this end, we propose to model the EL task as a hierarchical decision-making process and design a hierarchical reinforcement learning algorithm to solve the problem. We conduct extensive experiments to show that the proposed method achieves state-of-the-art performance in several EL benchmark datasets. Our code is publicly available at https://github. com/lhlclhl/he2eel.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25534,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25534,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,End-to-End Knowledge-Routed Relational Dialogue System for Automatic Diagnosis,Lin Xu;Qixian Zhou;Ke Gong;Xiaodan Liang;Jianheng Tang;Liang Lin,"Beyond current conversational chatbots or task-oriented dialogue systems that have attracted increasing attention, we move forward to develop a dialogue system for automatic medical diagnosis that converses with patients to collect additional symptoms beyond their self-reports and automatically makes a diagnosis. Besides the challenges for conversational dialogue systems( e. g. topic transition coherency and question understanding) , automatic medical diagnosis further poses more critical requirements for the dialogue rationality in the context of medical knowledge and symptom-disease relations. Existing dialogue systems( Madotto, Wu, and Fung 2018; Wei et al. 2018; Li et al. 2017) mostly rely on datadriven learning and cannot be able to encode extra expert knowledge graph. In this work, we propose an End-to-End Knowledge-routed Relational Dialogue System( KR-DS) that seamlessly incorporates rich medical knowledge graph into the topic transition in dialogue management, and makes it cooperative with natural language understanding and natural language generation. A novel Knowledge-routed Deep Q-network( KR-DQN) is introduced to manage topic transitions, which integrates a relational refinement branch for encoding relations among different symptoms and symptomdisease pairs, and a knowledge-routed graph branch for topic decision-making. Extensive experiments on a public medical dialogue dataset show our KR-DS significantly beats stateof-the-art methods( by more than 8% in diagnosis accuracy). We further show the superiority of our KR-DS on a newly collected medical dialogue system dataset, which is more challenging retaining original self-reports and conversational data between patients and doctors.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4722,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017346,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,End-to-End Pipeline for Trigger Detection on Hit and Track Graphs,Tingting Xuan;Yimin Zhu;Giorgian Borca-Tasciuc;Ming Xiong Liu;Yu Sun;Cameron Dean;Yasser Corrales Morales;Zhaozhong Shi;Dantong Yu,"There has been a surge of interest in applying deep learning in particle and nuclear physics to replace labor-intensive offline data analysis with automated online machine learning tasks. This paper details a novel AI-enabled triggering solution for physics experiments in Relativistic Heavy Ion Collider and future Electron-Ion Collider. The triggering system consists of a comprehensive end-to-end pipeline based on Graph Neural Networks that classifies trigger events versus background events, makes online decisions to retain signal data, and enables efficient data acquisition. The triggering system first starts with the coordinates of pixel hits lit up by passing particles in the detector, applies three stages of event processing( hits clustering, track reconstruction, and trigger detection) , and labels all processed events with the binary tag of trigger versus background events. By switching among different objective functions, we train the Graph Neural Networks in the pipeline to solve multiple tasks: the edge-level track reconstruction problem, the edge-level track adjacency matrix prediction, and the graph-level trigger detection problem. We propose a novel method to treat the events as track-graphs instead of hit-graphs. This method focuses on intertrack relations and is driven by underlying physics processing. As a result, it attains a solid performance( around 72% accuracy) for trigger detection and outperforms the baseline method using hit-graphs by 2% higher accuracy.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26870,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26870,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,End-to-End Verification for Subgraph Solving,Stephan Gocht;Ciaran McCreesh;Magnus O. Myreen;Jakob Nordstr\'f6m;Andy Oertel;Yong Kiam Tan,"Modern subgraph-finding algorithm implementations consist of thousands of lines of highly optimized code, and this complexity raises questions about their trustworthiness. Recently, some state-of-the-art subgraph solvers have been enhanced to output machine-verifiable proofs that their results are correct. While this significantly improves reliability, it is not a fully satisfactory solution, since end-users have to trust both the proof checking algorithms and the translation of the high-level graph problem into a low-level 0-1 integer linear program( ILP) used for the proofs. In this work, we present the first formally verified toolchain capable of full end-to-end verification for subgraph solving, which closes both of these trust gaps. We have built encoder frontends for various graph problems together with a 0-1 ILP( a. k. a. pseudo-Boolean) proof checker, all implemented and formally verified in the CakeML ecosystem. This toolchain is flexible and extensible, and we use it to build verified proof checkers for both decision and optimization graph problems, namely, subgraph isomorphism, maximum clique, and maximum common( connected) induced subgraph. Our experimental evaluation shows that end-to-end formal verification is now feasible for a wide range of hard graph problems.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28642,10.1609/aaai.v38i8.28642,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Energy Efficient Streaming Time Series Classification with Attentive Power Iteration,Hao Huang;Tapan Shah;Scott Evans;Shinjae Yoo,"Efficiently processing time series data streams in real-time on resource-constrained devices offers significant advantages in terms of enhanced computational energy efficiency and reduced time-related risks. We introduce an innovative streaming time series classification network that utilizes attentive power iteration, enabling real-time processing on resource-constrained devices. Our model continuously updates a compact representation of the entire time series, enhancing classification accuracy while conserving energy and processing time. Notably, it excels in streaming scenarios without requiring complete time series access, enabling swift decisions. Experimental results show that our approach excels in classification accuracy and energy efficiency, with over 70% less consumption and threefold faster task completion than benchmarks. This work advances real-time responsiveness, energy conservation, and operational effectiveness for constrained devices, contributing to optimizing various applications.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29151,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29151,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Energy-Efficient Automatic Train Driving by Learning Driving Patterns,Jin Huang;Yue Gao;Sha Lu;Xibin Zhao;Yangdong Deng;Ming Gu,"Railway is regarded as the most sustainable means of modern transportation. With the fast-growing of fleet size and the railway mileage, the energy consumption of trains is becoming a serious concern globally. The nature of railway offers a unique opportunity to optimize the energy efficiency of locomotives by taking advantage of the undulating terrains along a route. The derivation of an energy-optimal train driving solution, however, proves to be a significant challenge due to the high dimension, nonlinearity, complex constraints, and time-varying characteristic of the problem. An optimized solution can only be attained by considering both the complex environmental conditions of a given route and the inherent characteristics of a locomotive. To tackle the problem, this paper employs a high-order correlation learning method for online generation of the energy optimized train driving solutions. Based on the driving data of experienced human drivers, a hypergraph model is used to learn the optimal embedding from the specified features for the decision of a driving operation. First, we design a feature set capturing the driving status. Next all the training data are formulated as a hypergraph and an inductive learning process is conducted to obtain the embedding matrix. The hypergraph model can be used for real-time generation of driving operation. We also proposed a reinforcement updating scheme, which offers the capability of sustainable enhancement on the hypergraph model in industrial applications. The learned model can be used to determine an optimized driving operation in real-time tested on the Hardware-in-Loop platform. Validation experiments proved that the energy consumption of the proposed solution is around 10% lower than that of average human drivers.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11859,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11859,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Engineering an Exact Pseudo-Boolean Model Counter,Suwei Yang;Kuldeep S. Meel,"Model counting, a fundamental task in computer science, involves determining the number of satisfying assignments to a Boolean formula, typically represented in conjunctive normal form( CNF). While model counting for CNF formulas has received extensive attention with a broad range of applications, the study of model counting for Pseudo-Boolean( PB) formulas has been relatively overlooked. Pseudo-Boolean formulas, being more succinct than propositional Boolean formulas, offer greater flexibility in representing real-world problems. Consequently, there is a crucial need to investigate efficient techniques for model counting for PB formulas. In this work, we propose the first exact Pseudo-Boolean model counter, PBCount, that relies on knowledge compilation approach via algebraic decision diagrams. Our extensive empirical evaluation shows that PBCount can compute counts for 1513 instances while the current state-of-the-art approach could only handle 1013 instances. Our work opens up several avenues for future work in the context of model counting for PB formulas, such as the development of preprocessing techniques and exploration of approaches other than knowledge compilation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28660,10.1609/aaai.v38i8.28660,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Engineering Pro-Sociality With Autonomous Agents,Ana Paiva;Fernando Santos;Francisco Santos,"This paper envisions a future where autonomous agents are used to foster and support pro-social behavior in a hybrid society of humans and machines. Pro-social behavior occurs when people and agents perform costly actions that benefit others. Acts such as helping others voluntarily, donating to charity, providing informations or sharing resources, are all forms of pro-social behavior. We discuss two questions that challenge a purely utilitarian view of human decision making and contextualize its role in hybrid societies: i) What are the conditions and mechanisms that lead societies of agents and humans to be more pro-social? ii) How can we engineer autonomous entities( agents and robots) that lead to more altruistic and cooperative behaviors in a hybrid society? We propose using social simulations, game theory, population dynamics, and studies with people in virtual or real environments( with robots) where both agents and humans interact. This research will constitute the basis for establishing the foundations for the new field of Pro-social Computing, aiming at understanding, predicting and promoting pro-sociality among humans, through artificial agents and multiagent systems.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12215,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12215,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Senior Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Enhanced Random Forest Algorithms for Partially Monotone Ordinal Classification,Christopher Bartley;Wei Liu;Mark Reynolds,"One of the factors hindering the use of classification models in decision making is that their predictions may contradict expectations. In domains such as finance and medicine, the ability to include knowledge of monotone( nondecreasing) relationships is sought after to increase accuracy and user satisfaction. As one of the most successful classifiers, attempts have been made to do so for Random Forest. Ideally a solution would( a) maximise accuracy;( b) have low complexity and scale well;( c) guarantee global monotonicity; and( d) cater for multi-class. This paper first reviews the state-of-theart from both the literature and statistical libraries, and identifies opportunities for improvement. A new rule-based method is then proposed, with a maximal accuracy variant and a faster approximate variant. Simulated and real datasets are then used to perform the most comprehensive ordinal classification benchmarking in the monotone forest literature. The proposed approaches are shown to reduce the bias induced by monotonisation and thereby improve accuracy.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4191,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013224,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Enhancing Parameter-Free Frank Wolfe with an Extra Subproblem,Bingcong Li;Lingda Wang;Georgios B. Giannakis;Zhizhen Zhao,"Aiming at convex optimization under structural constraints, this work introduces and analyzes a variant of the Frank Wolfe( FW) algorithm termed ExtraFW. The distinct feature of ExtraFW is the pair of gradients leveraged per iteration, thanks to which the decision variable is updated in a prediction-correction( PC) format. Relying on no problem dependent parameters in the step sizes, the convergence rate of ExtraFW for general convex problems is shown to be $\{\\\\cal O\}( \\\\frac\{1\}\{k\}) $, which is optimal in the sense of matching the lower bound on the number of solved FW subproblems. However, the merit of ExtraFW is its faster rate $\{\\\\cal O\}\\\\big( \\\\frac\{1\}\{k^2\} \\\\big) $ on a class of machine learning problems. Compared with other parameter-free FW variants that have faster rates on the same problems, ExtraFW has improved rates and fine-grained analysis thanks to its PC update. Numerical tests on binary classification with different sparsity-promoting constraints demonstrate that the empirical performance of ExtraFW is significantly better than FW, and even faster than Nesterovs accelerated gradient on certain datasets. For matrix completion, ExtraFW enjoys smaller optimality gap, and lower rank than FW.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17012,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.17012,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Enhancing Semi-supervised Domain Adaptation via Effective Target Labeling,Jiujun He;Bin Liu;Guosheng Yin,"Existing semi-supervised domain adaptation( SSDA) models have exhibited impressive performance on the target domain by effectively utilizing few labeled target samples per class( e. g. , 3 samples per class). To guarantee an equal number of labeled target samples for each class, however, they require domain experts to manually recognize a considerable amount of the unlabeled target data. Moreover, as the target samples are not equally informative for shaping the decision boundaries of the learning models, it is crucial to select the most informative target samples for labeling, which is, however, impossible for human selectors. As a remedy, we propose an EFfective Target Labeling( EFTL) framework that harnesses active learning and pseudo-labeling strategies to automatically select some informative target samples to annotate. Concretely, we introduce a novel sample query strategy, called non-maximal degree node suppression( NDNS) , that iteratively performs maximal degree node query and non-maximal degree node removal to select representative and diverse target samples for labeling. To learn target-specific characteristics, we propose a novel pseudo-labeling strategy that attempts to label low-confidence target samples accurately via clustering consistency( CC) , and then inject information of the model uncertainty into our query process. CC enhances the utilization of the annotation budget and increases the number of \'93labeled\'94 target samples while requiring no additional manual effort. Our proposed EFTL framework can be easily coupled with existing SSDA models, showing significant improvements on three benchmarks",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29130,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29130,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Entropy Regularization for Population Estimation,Ben Chugg;Peter Henderson;Jacob Goldin;Daniel E. Ho,"Entropy regularization is known to improve exploration in sequential decision-making problems. We show that this same mechanism can also lead to nearly unbiased and lower-variance estimates of the mean reward in the optimize-and-estimate structured bandit setting. Mean reward estimation( i. e. , population estimation) tasks have recently been shown to be essential for public policy settings where legal constraints often require precise estimates of population metrics. We show that leveraging entropy and KL divergence can yield a better trade-off between reward and estimator variance than existing baselines, all while remaining nearly unbiased. These properties of entropy regularization illustrate an exciting potential for bringing together the optimal exploration and estimation literature.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26438,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26438,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning Under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Episodic Policy Gradient Training,Hung Le;Majid Abdolshah;Thommen K. George;Kien Do;Dung Nguyen;Svetha Venkatesh,"We introduce a novel training procedure for policy gradient methods wherein episodic memory is used to optimize the hyperparameters of reinforcement learning algorithms on-the-fly. Unlike other hyperparameter searches, we formulate hyperparameter scheduling as a standard Markov Decision Process and use episodic memory to store the outcome of used hyperparameters and their training contexts. At any policy update step, the policy learner refers to the stored experiences, and adaptively reconfigures its learning algorithm with the new hyperparameters determined by the memory. This mechanism, dubbed as Episodic Policy Gradient Training( EPGT) , enables an episodic learning process, and jointly learns the policy and the learning algorithms hyperparameters within a single run. Experimental results on both continuous and discrete environments demonstrate the advantage of using the proposed method in boosting the performance of various policy gradient algorithms.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20694,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20694,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Episodic Return Decomposition by Difference of Implicitly Assigned Sub-trajectory Reward,Haoxin Lin;Hongqiu Wu;Jiaji Zhang;Yihao Sun;Junyin Ye;Yang Yu,"Real-world decision-making problems are usually accompanied by delayed rewards, which affects the sample efficiency of Reinforcement Learning, especially in the extremely delayed case where the only feedback is the episodic reward obtained at the end of an episode. Episodic return decomposition is a promising way to deal with the episodic-reward setting. Several corresponding algorithms have shown remarkable effectiveness of the learned step-wise proxy rewards from return decomposition. However, these existing methods lack either attribution or representation capacity, leading to inefficient decomposition in the case of long-term episodes. In this paper, we propose a novel episodic return decomposition method called Diaster( Difference of implicitly assigned sub-trajectory reward). Diaster decomposes any episodic reward into credits of two divided sub-trajectories at any cut point, and the step-wise proxy rewards come from differences in expectation. We theoretically and empirically verify that the decomposed proxy reward function can guide the policy to be nearly optimal. Experimental results show that our method outperforms previous state-of-the-art methods in terms of both sample efficiency and performance. The code is available at https://github. com/HxLyn3/Diaster.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29287,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29287,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Equivalence in Argumentation Frameworks with a Claim-Centric View \'96 Classical Results with Novel Ingredients,Ringo Baumann;Anna Rapberger;Markus Ulbricht,"A common feature of non-monotonic logics is that the classical notion of equivalence does not preserve the intended meaning in light of additional information. Consequently, the term strong equivalence was coined in the literature and thoroughly investigated. In the present paper, the knowledge representation formalism under consideration are claim-augmented argumentation frameworks( CAFs) which provide a formal basis to analyze conclusion-oriented problems in argumentation by adapting a claim-focused perspective. CAFs extend Dung AFs by associating a claim to each argument representing its conclusion. In this paper, we investigate both ordinary and strong equivalence in CAFs. Thereby, we take the fact into account that one might either be interested in the actual arguments or their claims only. The former point of view naturally yields an extension of strong equivalence for AFs to the claim-based setting while the latter gives rise to a novel equivalence notion which is genuine for CAFs. We tailor, examine and compare these notions and obtain a comprehensive study of this matter for CAFs. We conclude by investigating the computational complexity of naturally arising decision problems.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20486,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20486,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ERL-TD: Evolutionary Reinforcement Learning Enhanced with Truncated Variance and Distillation Mutation,Qiuzhen Lin;Yangfan Chen;Lijia Ma;Wei-Neng Chen;Jianqiang  Li,"Recently, an emerging research direction called Evolutionary Reinforcement Learning( ERL) has been proposed, which combines evolutionary algorithm with reinforcement learning( RL) for tackling the tasks of sequential decision making. However, the recently proposed ERL algorithms often suffer from two challenges: the inaccuracy of policy estimation caused by the overestimation bias in RL and the insufficiency of exploration caused by inefficient mutations. To alleviate these problems, we propose an Evolutionary Reinforcement Learning algorithm enhanced with Truncated variance and Distillation mutation, called ERL-TD. We utilize multiple Q-networks to evaluate state-action pairs, so that multiple networks can provide more accurate evaluations for state-action pairs, in which the variance of evaluations can be adopted to control the overestimation bias in RL. Moreover, we propose a new distillation mutation to provide a promising mutation direction, which is different from traditional mutation generating a large number of random solutions. We evaluate ERL-TD on the continuous control benchmarks from the OpenAI Gym and DeepMind Control Suite. The experiments show that ERL-TD shows excellent performance and outperforms all baseline RL algorithms on the test suites.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29289,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29289,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Estimating Card Fitness for Discard in Gin Rummy,Jacob Gallucci;Richard Bowser;Sarah Kettell;Christian Overton,"Due to the computation time and resources required, there is no known optimal strategy for the game of Gin Rummy. Previous work in extensive games, such as Texas Hold \'92em Poker, has found that hand fitness and information sets about the state of the game can be used to determine an improved strategy. These information sets, combined with algorithms for Counterfactual Regret Minimization, can arrive at a Nash Equilibrium strategy for smaller abstractions of extensive games. This paper builds on previous research by extending the premise of hand fitness to card fitness in the discard decision point of Gin Rummy. We argue that a card can be ranked based on whether it meets four specific characteristics at that stage in the game. These characteristics include its effect on deadwood points after one more turn, its utility to the opponent, and if it can contribute to a meld. An optimal discard choice can then be picked from the highest-ranked card by using a simplified Counterfactual regret minimization strategy that can be trained in less time due to its limited information set. While this does not look at every potential characteristic of card fitness, it outperformed other bots when evaluated in a large number of games. These bots did not consider card fitness as a whole, but rather considered characteristics separately. We argue that the characteristics defined are a part of the total information set that can determine the discard fitness of a card within a hand in the game of Gin Rummy.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17825,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17825,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Estimating Identifiable Causal Effects through Double Machine Learning,Yonghan Jung;Jin Tian;Elias Bareinboim,"Identifying causal effects from observational data is a pervasive challenge found throughout the empirical sciences. Very general methods have been developed to decide the identifiability of a causal quantity from a combination of observational data and causal knowledge about the underlying system. In practice, however, there are still challenges to estimating identifiable causal functionals from finite samples. Recently, a method known as double/debiased machine learning( DML) ( Chernozhukov et al. 2018) has been proposed to learn parameters leveraging modern machine learning techniques, which is both robust to model misspecification and bias-reducing. Still, DML has only been used for causal estimation in settings when the back-door condition( also known as conditional ignorability) holds. In this paper, we develop a new, general class of estimators for any identifiable causal functionals that exhibit DML properties, which we name DML-ID. In particular, we introduce a complete identification algorithm that returns an influence function( IF) for any identifiable causal functional. We then construct the DML estimator based on the derived IF. We show that DML-ID estimators hold the key properties of debiasedness and doubly robustness. Simulation results corroborate with the theory.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17438,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17438,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Estimating the Class Prior in Positive and Unlabeled Data Through Decision Tree Induction,Jessa Bekker;Jesse Davis,"For tasks such as medical diagnosis and knowledge base completion, a classifier may only have access to positive and unlabeled examples, where the unlabeled data consists of both positive and negative examples. One way that enables learning from this type of data is knowing the true class prior. In this paper, we propose a simple yet effective method for estimating the class prior, by estimating the probability that a positive example is selected to be labeled. Our key insight is that subdomains of the data give a lower bound on this probability. This lower bound gets closer to the real probability as the ratio of labeled examples increases. Finding such subsets can naturally be done via top-down decision tree induction. Experiments show that our method makes estimates which are equivalently accurate as those of the state of the art methods, and is an order of magnitude faster.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11715,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11715,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Ethically Compliant Sequential Decision Making,Justin Svegliato;Samer B. Nashed;Shlomo Zilberstein,"Enabling autonomous systems to comply with an ethical theory is critical given their accelerating deployment in domains that impact society. While many ethical theories have been studied extensively in moral philosophy, they are still challenging to implement by developers who build autonomous systems. This paper proposes a novel approach for building ethically compliant autonomous systems that optimize completing a task while following an ethical framework. First, we introduce a definition of an ethically compliant autonomous system and its properties. Next, we offer a range of ethical frameworks for divine command theory, prima facie duties, and virtue ethics. Finally, we demonstrate the accuracy and usability of our approach in a set of autonomous driving simulations and a user study of planning and robotics experts.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17386,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17386,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evaluating Digital Agriculture Recommendations with Causal Inference,Ilias Tsoumas;Georgios Giannarakis;Vasileios Sitokonstantinou;Alkiviadis Koukos;Dimitra Loka;Nikolaos Bartsotas;Charalampos Kontoes;Ioannis Athanasiadis,"In contrast to the rapid digitalization of several industries, agriculture suffers from low adoption of smart farming tools. Even though recent advancements in AI-driven digital agriculture can offer high-performing predictive functionalities, they lack tangible quantitative evidence on their benefits to the farmers. Field experiments can derive such evidence, but are often costly, time consuming and hence limited in scope and scale of application. To this end, we propose an observational causal inference framework for the empirical evaluation of the impact of digital tools on target farm performance indicators( e. g. , yield in this case). This way, we can increase farmers trust via enhancing the transparency of the digital agriculture market, and in turn accelerate the adoption of technologies that aim to secure farmer income resilience and global agricultural sustainability against a changing climate. As a case study, we designed and implemented a recommendation system for the optimal sowing time of cotton based on numerical weather predictions, which was used by a farmers cooperative during the growing season of 2021. We then leverage agricultural knowledge, collected yield data, and environmental information to develop a causal graph of the farm system. Using the back-door criterion, we identify the impact of sowing recommendations on the yield and subsequently estimate it using linear regression, matching, inverse propensity score weighting and meta-learners. The results revealed that a field sown according to our recommendations exhibited a statistically significant yield increase that ranged from 12% to 17%, depending on the method. The effect estimates were robust, as indicated by the agreement among the estimation methods and four successful refutation tests. We argue that this approach can be implemented for decision support systems of other fields, extending their evaluation beyond a performance assessment of internal functionalities.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26697,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26697,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evaluating Explainable AI on a Multi-Modal Medical Imaging Task: Can Existing Algorithms Fulfill Clinical Requirements?,Weina Jin;Xiaoxiao Li;Ghassan Hamarneh,"Being able to explain the prediction to clinical end-users is a necessity to leverage the power of artificial intelligence( AI) models for clinical decision support. For medical images, a feature attribution map, or heatmap, is the most common form of explanation that highlights important features for AI models prediction. However, it is unknown how well heatmaps perform on explaining decisions on multi-modal medical images, where each image modality or channel visualizes distinct clinical information of the same underlying biomedical phenomenon. Understanding such modality-dependent features is essential for clinical users interpretation of AI decisions. To tackle this clinically important but technically ignored problem, we propose the modality-specific feature importance( MSFI) metric. It encodes clinical image and explanation interpretation patterns of modality prioritization and modality-specific feature localization. We conduct a clinical requirement-grounded, systematic evaluation using computational methods and a clinician user study. Results show that the examined 16 heatmap algorithms failed to fulfill clinical requirements to correctly indicate AI model decision process or decision quality. The evaluation and MSFI metric can guide the design and selection of explainable AI algorithms to meet clinical requirements on multi-modal explanation.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21452,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21452,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evaluating Gin Rummy Hands Using Opponent Modeling and Myopic Meld Distance,Phoebe Goldman;Corey R. Knutson;Ryan Mahtab;Jack Maloney;Joseph B. Mueller;Richard G. Freedman,"Gin Rummy is a popular two-player card game involving choices to draw and discard cards to form sets of matching cards. Unlike other popular games such as Chess, Poker, and Go, there is little formal artificial intelligence research about how to make good decisions when playing Gin Rummy. In this paper, we develop an agent that plays Gin Rummy through a combination of known and expected card values, modeling the opponent to predict their cards of interest, and a conservative approach to assessing when to end the hand. In addition to discussing our observations about Gin Rummy that inspired our agents design and how the agent works, we evaluate the relative importance of various features employed by our agent by competing agents which implement various subsets of those features.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17826,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17826,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evaluating Model-Free Reinforcement Learning toward Safety-Critical Tasks,Linrui Zhang;Qin Zhang;Li Shen;Bo Yuan;Xueqian Wang;Dacheng Tao,"Safety comes first in many real-world applications involving autonomous agents. Despite a large number of reinforcement learning( RL) methods focusing on safety-critical tasks, there is still a lack of high-quality evaluation of those algorithms that adheres to safety constraints at each decision step under complex and unknown dynamics. In this paper, we revisit prior work in this scope from the perspective of state-wise safe RL and categorize them as projection-based, recovery-based, and optimization-based approaches, respectively. Furthermore, we propose Unrolling Safety Layer( USL) , a joint method that combines safety optimization and safety projection. This novel technique explicitly enforces hard constraints via the deep unrolling architecture and enjoys structural advantages in navigating the trade-off between reward improvement and constraint satisfaction. To facilitate further research in this area, we reproduce related algorithms in a unified pipeline and incorporate them into SafeRL-Kit, a toolkit that provides off-the-shelf interfaces and evaluation utilities for safety-critical tasks. We then perform a comparative study of the involved algorithms on six benchmarks ranging from robotic control to autonomous driving. The empirical results provide an insight into their applicability and robustness in learning zero-cost-return policies without task-dependent handcrafting. The project page is available at https://sites. google. com/view/saferlkit.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26786,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26786,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evidential Conditional Neural Processes,Deep Shankar Pandey;Qi Yu,"The Conditional Neural Process( CNP) family of models offer a promising direction to tackle few-shot problems by achieving better scalability and competitive predictive performance. However, the current CNP models only capture the overall uncertainty for the prediction made on a target data point. They lack a systematic fine-grained quantification on the distinct sources of uncertainty that are essential for model training and decision-making under the few-shot setting. We propose Evidential Conditional Neural Processes( ECNP) , which replace the standard Gaussian distribution used by CNP with a much richer hierarchical Bayesian structure through evidential learning to achieve epistemic-aleatoric uncertainty decomposition. The evidential hierarchical structure also leads to a theoretically justified robustness over noisy training tasks. Theoretical analysis on the proposed ECNP establishes the relationship with CNP while offering deeper insights on the roles of the evidential parameters. Extensive experiments conducted on both synthetic and real-world data demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed model in various few-shot settings.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26125,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26125,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evolution of Collective Fairness in Hybrid Populations of Humans and Agents,Fernando P. Santos;Jorge M. Pacheco;Ana Paiva;Francisco C. Santos,"Fairness plays a fundamental role in decision-making, which is evidenced by the high incidence of human behaviors that result in egalitarian outcomes. This is often shown in the context of dyadic interactions, resorting to the Ultimatum Game. The peculiarities of group interactions \'96 and the corresponding effect in eliciting fair actions \'96 remain, however, astray. Focusing on groups suggests several questions related with the effect of group size, group decision rules and the interrelation of human and agents\'92 behaviors in hybrid groups. To address these topics, here we test a Multiplayer version of the Ultimatum Game( MUG) : proposals are made to groups of Responders that, collectively, accept or reject them. Firstly, we run an online experiment to evaluate how humans react to different group decision rules. We observe that people become increasingly fair if groups adopt stricter decision rules, i. e. , if more individuals are required to accept a proposal for it to be accepted by the group. Secondly, we propose a new analytical model to shed light on how such behaviors may have evolved. Thirdly, we adapt our model to include agents with fixed behaviors. We show that including hardcoded Pro-social agents favors the evolutionary stability of fair states, even for soft group decision rules. This suggests that judiciously introducing agents with particular behaviors in a population may leverage long-term social benefits.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4572,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016146,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Evolving Action Abstractions for Real-Time Planning in Extensive-Form Games,Julian R. H. Mari\'f1o;Rubens O. Moraes;Claudio Toledo;Levi H. S. Lelis,"A key challenge for planning systems in real-time multiagent domains is to search in large action spaces to decide an agent\'92s next action. Previous works showed that handcrafted action abstractions allow planning systems to focus their search on a subset of promising actions. In this paper we show that the problem of generating action abstractions can be cast as a problem of selecting a subset of pure strategies from a pool of options. We model the selection of a subset of pure strategies as a two-player game in which the strategy set of the players is the powerset of the pool of options\'97 we call this game the subset selection game. We then present an evolutionary algorithm for solving such a game. Empirical results on small matches of \'b5RTS show that our evolutionary approach is able to converge to a Nash equilibrium for the subset selection game. Also, results on larger matches show that search algorithms using action abstractions derived by our evolutionary approach are able to substantially outperform all state-of-the-art planning systems tested.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4072,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012330,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exacerbating Algorithmic Bias through Fairness Attacks,Ninareh Mehrabi;Muhammad Naveed;Fred Morstatter;Aram Galstyan,"Algorithmic fairness has attracted significant attention in recent years, with many quantitative measures suggested for characterizing the fairness of different machine learning algorithms. Despite this interest, the robustness of those fairness measures with respect to an intentional adversarial attack has not been properly addressed. Indeed, most adversarial machine learning has focused on the impact of malicious attacks on the accuracy of the system, without any regard to the systems fairness. We propose new types of data poisoning attacks where an adversary intentionally targets the fairness of a system. Specifically, we propose two families of attacks that target fairness measures. In the anchoring attack, we skew the decision boundary by placing poisoned points near specific target points to bias the outcome. In the influence attack on fairness, we aim to maximize the covariance between the sensitive attributes and the decision outcome and affect the fairness of the model. We conduct extensive experiments that indicate the effectiveness of our proposed attacks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17080,10.1609/aaai.v35i10.17080,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Expectation-Aware Planning: A Unifying Framework for Synthesizing and Executing Self-Explaining Plans for Human-Aware Planning,Sarath Sreedharan;Tathagata Chakraborti;Christian Muise;Subbarao Kambhampati,"In this work, we present a new planning formalism called Expectation-Aware planning for decision making with humans in the loop where the humans expectations about an agent may differ from the agents own model. We show how this formulation allows agents to not only leverage existing strategies for handling model differences like explanations( Chakraborti et al. 2017) and explicability( Kulkarni et al. 2019) , but can also exhibit novel behaviors that are generated through the combination of these different strategies. Our formulation also reveals a deep connection to existing approaches in epistemic planning. Specifically, we show how we can leverage classical planning compilations for epistemic planning to solve Expectation-Aware planning problems. To the best of our knowledge, the proposed formulation is the first complete solution to planning with diverging user expectations that is amenable to a classical planning compilation while successfully combining previous works on explanation and explicability. We empirically show how our approach provides a computational advantage over our earlier approaches that rely on search in the space of models.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5634,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5634,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Expected Utility with Relative Loss Reduction: A Unifying Decision Model for Resolving Four Well-Known Paradoxes,Wenjun Ma;Yuncheng Jiang;Weiru Liu;Xudong Luo;Kevin McAreavey,"Some well-known paradoxes in decision making( e. g. , the Allais paradox, the St. Peterburg paradox, the Ellsberg paradox, and the Machina paradox) reveal that choices conventional expected utility theory predicts could be inconsistent with empirical observations. So, solutions to these paradoxes can help us better understand humans decision making accurately. This is also highly related to the prediction power of a decision-making model in real-world applications. Thus, various models have been proposed to address these paradoxes. However, most of them can only solve parts of the paradoxes, and for doing so some of them have to rely on the parameter tuning without proper justifications for such bounds of parameters. To this end, this paper proposes a new descriptive decision-making model, expected utility with relative loss reduction, which can exhibit the same qualitative behaviours as those observed in experiments of these paradoxes without any additional parameter setting. In particular, we introduce the concept of relative loss reduction to reflect peoples tendency to prefer ensuring a sufficient minimum loss to just a maximum expected utility in decision-making under risk or ambiguity.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11322,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11322,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ExpeL: LLM Agents Are Experiential Learners,Andrew Zhao;Daniel Huang;Quentin Xu;Matthieu Lin;Yong-Jin Liu;Gao Huang,"The recent surge in research interest in applying large language models( LLMs) to decision-making tasks has flourished by leveraging the extensive world knowledge embedded in LLMs. While there is a growing demand to tailor LLMs for custom decision-making tasks, finetuning them for specific tasks is resource-intensive and may diminish the models generalization capabilities. Moreover, state-of-the-art language models like GPT-4 and Claude are primarily accessible through API calls, with their parametric weights remaining proprietary and unavailable to the public. This scenario emphasizes the growing need for new methodologies that allow learning from agent experiences without requiring parametric updates. To address these problems, we introduce the Experiential Learning( ExpeL) agent. Our agent autonomously gathers experiences and extracts knowledge using natural language from a collection of training tasks. At inference, the agent recalls its extracted insights and past experiences to make informed decisions. Our empirical results highlight the robust learning efficacy of the ExpeL agent, indicating a consistent enhancement in its performance as it accumulates experiences. We further explore the emerging capabilities and transfer learning potential of the ExpeL agent through qualitative observations and additional experiments.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29936,10.1609/aaai.v38i17.29936,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Expert Guided Rule Based Prioritization of Scientifically Relevant Images for Downlinking over Limited Bandwidth from Planetary Orbiters,Srija Chakraborty;Subhasish Das;Ayan Banerjee;Sandeep K. S. Gupta;Philip R. Christensen,"Instruments onboard spacecraft acquire large amounts of data which is to be transmitted over a very low bandwidth. Consequently for some missions, the volume of data collected greatly exceeds the volume that can be downlinked before the next orbit. This necessitates the introduction of an intelligent autonomous decision making module that maximizes the return of the most scientifically relevant dataset over the low bandwidth for experts to analyze further. We propose an iterative rule based approach, guided by expert knowledge, to represent scientifically interesting geological landforms with respect to expert selected attributes. The rules are utilized to assign a priority based on how novel a test instance is with respect to its rule. High priority instances from the test set are used to iteratively update the learned rules. We then determine the effectiveness of the proposed approach on images acquired by a Mars orbiter and observe an expert-acceptable prioritization order generated by the rules that can potentially increase the return of scientifically relevant observations.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4995,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019440,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explainable and Local Correction of Classification Models Using Decision Trees,Hirofumi Suzuki;Hiroaki Iwashita;Takuya Takagi;Keisuke Goto;Yuta Fujishige;Satoshi Hara,"In practical machine learning, models are frequently updated, or corrected, to adapt to new datasets. In this study, we pose two challenges to model correction. First, the effects of corrections to the end-users need to be described explicitly, similar to standard software where the corrections are described as release notes. Second, the amount of corrections need to be small so that the corrected models perform similarly to the old models. In this study, we propose the first model correction method for classification models that resolves these two challenges. Our idea is to use an additional decision tree to correct the output of the old models. Thanks to the explainability of decision trees, the corrections are describable to the end-users, which resolves the first challenge. We resolve the second challenge by incorporating the amount of corrections when training the additional decision tree so that the effects of corrections to be small. Experiments on real data confirm the effectiveness of the proposed method compared to existing correction methods.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20816,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20816,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explaining A Black-box By Using A Deep Variational Information Bottleneck Approach,Seojin Bang;Pengtao Xie;Heewook Lee;Wei Wu;Eric Xing,"Interpretable machine learning has gained much attention recently. Briefness and comprehensiveness are necessary in order to provide a large amount of information concisely when explaining a black-box decision system. However, existing interpretable machine learning methods fail to consider briefness and comprehensiveness simultaneously, leading to redundant explanations. We propose the variational information bottleneck for interpretation, VIBI, a system-agnostic interpretable method that provides a brief but comprehensive explanation. VIBI adopts an information theoretic principle, information bottleneck principle, as a criterion for finding such explanations. For each instance, VIBI selects key features that are maximally compressed about an input( briefness) , and informative about a decision made by a black-box system on that input( comprehensive). We evaluate VIBI on three datasets and compare with state-of-the-art interpretable machine learning methods in terms of both interpretability and fidelity evaluated by human and quantitative metrics.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17358,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17358,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explaining Convolutional Neural Networks through Attribution-Based Input Sampling and Block-Wise Feature Aggregation,Sam Sattarzadeh;Mahesh Sudhakar;Anthony Lem;Shervin Mehryar;Konstantinos N Plataniotis;Jongseong Jang;Hyunwoo Kim;Yeonjeong Jeong;Sangmin Lee;Kyunghoon Bae,"As an emerging field in Machine Learning, Explainable AI( XAI) has been offering remarkable performance in interpreting the decisions made by Convolutional Neural Networks( CNNs). To achieve visual explanations for CNNs, methods based on class activation mapping and randomized input sampling have gained great popularity. However, the attribution methods based on these techniques provide lower-resolution and blurry explanation maps that limit their explanation power. To circumvent this issue, visualization based on various layers is sought. In this work, we collect visualization maps from multiple layers of the model based on an attribution-based input sampling technique and aggregate them to reach a fine-grained and complete explanation. We also propose a layer selection strategy that applies to the whole family of CNN-based models, based on which our extraction framework is applied to visualize the last layers of each convolutional block of the model. Moreover, we perform an empirical analysis of the efficacy of derived lower-level information to enhance the represented attributions. Comprehensive experiments conducted on shallow and deep models trained on natural and industrial datasets, using both ground-truth and model-truth based evaluation metrics validate our proposed algorithm by meeting or outperforming the state-of-the-art methods in terms of explanation ability and visual quality, demonstrating that our method shows stability regardless of the size of objects or instances to be explained.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17384,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17384,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explaining Propagators for String Edit Distance Constraints,Felix Winter;Nysret Musliu;Peter Stuckey,"The computation of string similarity measures has been thoroughly studied in the scientific literature and has applications in a wide variety of different areas. One of the most widely used measures is the so called string edit distance which captures the number of required edit operations to transform a string into another given string. Although polynomial time algorithms are known for calculating the edit distance between two strings, there also exist NP-hard problems from practical applications like scheduling or computational biology that constrain the minimum edit distance between arrays of decision variables. In this work, we propose a novel global constraint to formulate restrictions on the minimum edit distance for such problems. Furthermore, we describe a propagation algorithm and investigate an explanation strategy for an edit distance constraint propagator that can be incorporated into state of the art lazy clause generation solvers. Experimental results show that the proposed propagator is able to significantly improve the performance of existing exact methods regarding solution quality and computation speed for benchmark problems from the literature.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5530,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5530,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explaining Random Forests Using Bipolar Argumentation and Markov Networks,Nico Potyka;Xiang Yin;Francesca Toni,"Random forests are decision tree ensembles that can be used to solve a variety of machine learning problems. However, as the number of trees and their individual size can be large, their decision making process is often incomprehensible. We show that their decision process can be naturally represented as an argumentation problem, which allows creating global explanations via argumentative reasoning. We generalize sufficient and necessary argumentative explanations using a Markov network encoding, discuss the relevance of these explanations and establish relationships to families of abductive explanations from the literature. As the complexity of the explanation problems is high, we present an efficient approximation algorithm with probabilistic approximation guarantees.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26132,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26132,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explaining Reinforcement Learning Agents through Counterfactual Action Outcomes,Yotam Amitai;Yael Septon;Ofra Amir,"Explainable reinforcement learning( XRL) methods aim to help elucidate agent policies and decision-making processes. The majority of XRL approaches focus on local explanations, seeking to shed light on the reasons an agent acts the way it does at a specific world state. While such explanations are both useful and necessary, they typically do not portray the outcomes of the agents selected choice of action. In this work, we propose ``COViz, a new local explanation method that visually compares the outcome of an agents chosen action to a counterfactual one. In contrast to most local explanations that provide state-limited observations of the agents motivation, our method depicts alternative trajectories the agent could have taken from the given state and their outcomes. We evaluated the usefulness of COViz in supporting peoples understanding of agents preferences and compare it with reward decomposition, a local explanation method that describes an agents expected utility for different actions by decomposing it into meaningful reward types. Furthermore, we examine the complementary benefits of integrating both methods. Our results show that such integration significantly improved participants performance.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28863,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28863,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explanation Consistency Training: Facilitating Consistency-Based Semi-Supervised Learning with Interpretability,Tao Han;Wei-Wei Tu;Yu-Feng Li,"Unlabeled data exploitation and interpretability are usually both required in reality. They, however, are conducted independently, and very few works try to connect the two. For unlabeled data exploitation, state-of-the-art semi-supervised learning( SSL) results have been achieved via encouraging the consistency of model output on data perturbation, that is, consistency assumption. However, it remains hard for users to understand how particular decisions are made by state-of-the-art SSL models. To this end, in this paper we first disclose that the consistency assumption is closely related to causality invariance, where causality invariance lies in the main reason why the consistency assumption is valid. We then propose ECT( Explanation Consistency Training) which encourages a consistent reason of model decision under data perturbation. ECT employs model explanation as a surrogate of the causality of model output, which is able to bridge state-of-the-art interpretability to SSL models and alleviate the high complexity of causality. We realize ECT-SM for vision and ECT-ATT for NLP tasks. Experimental results on real-world data sets validate the highly competitive performance and better explanation of the proposed algorithms.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16934,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16934,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Explicit Defense Actions Against Test-Set Attacks,Scott Alfeld;Xiaojin Zhu;Paul Barford,"Automated learning and decision making systems in public-facing applications are vulnerable to malicious attacks. Examples of such systems include spam detectors, credit card fraud detectors, and network intrusion detection systems. These systems are at further risk of attack when money is directly involved, such as market forecasters or decision systems used in determining insurance or loan rates. In this paper, we consider the setting where a predictor Bob has a fixed model, and an unknown attacker Alice aims to perturb( or poison) future test instances so as to alter Bobs prediction to her benefit. We focus specifically on Bobs optimal defense actions to limit Alices effectiveness. We define a general framework for determining Bobs optimal defense action against Alices worst-case attack. We then demonstrate our framework by considering linear predictors, where we provide tractable methods of determining the optimal defense action. Using these methods, we perform an empirical investigation of optimal defense actions for a particular class of linear models -- autoregressive forecasters -- and find that for ten real world futures markets, the optimal defense action reduces the Bobs loss by between 78 and 97%.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10767,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10767,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploiting Anonymity in Approximate Linear Programming: Scaling to Large Multiagent MDPs,Philipp Robbel;Frans Oliehoek;Mykel Kochenderfer,"Many solution methods for Markov Decision Processes( MDPs) exploit structure in the problem and are based on value function factorization. Especially multiagent settings, however, are known to suffer from an exponential increase in value component sizes as interactions become denser, restricting problem sizes and types that can be handled. We present an approach to mitigate this limitation for certain types of multiagent systems, exploiting a property that can be thought of as anonymous influence in the factored MDP. We show how representational benefits from anonymity translate into computational efficiencies, both for variable elimination in a factor graph and for the approximate linear programming solution to factored MDPs. Our methods scale to factored MDPs that were previously unsolvable, such as the control of a stochastic disease process over densely connected graphs with 50 nodes and 25 agents.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10133,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10133,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploiting Multiple Abstractions in Episodic RL via Reward Shaping,Roberto Cipollone;Giuseppe De Giacomo;Marco Favorito;Luca Iocchi;Fabio Patrizi,"One major limitation to the applicability of Reinforcement Learning( RL) to many practical domains is the large number of samples required to learn an optimal policy. To address this problem and improve learning efficiency, we consider a linear hierarchy of abstraction layers of the Markov Decision Process( MDP) underlying the target domain. Each layer is an MDP representing a coarser model of the one immediately below in the hierarchy. In this work, we propose a novel form of Reward Shaping where the solution obtained at the abstract level is used to offer rewards to the more concrete MDP, in such a way that the abstract solution guides the learning in the more complex domain. In contrast with other works in Hierarchical RL, our technique has few requirements in the design of the abstract models and it is also tolerant to modeling errors, thus making the proposed approach practical. We formally analyze the relationship between the abstract models and the exploration heuristic induced in the lower-level domain. Moreover, we prove that the method guarantees optimal convergence and we demonstrate its effectiveness experimentally.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25881,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25881,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploration via Epistemic Value Estimation,Simon Schmitt;John Shawe-Taylor;Hado van Hasselt,How to efficiently explore in reinforcement learning is an open problem. Many exploration algorithms employ the epistemic uncertainty of their own value predictions -- for instance to compute an exploration bonus or upper confidence bound. Unfortunately the required uncertainty is difficult to estimate in general with function approximation. We propose epistemic value estimation( EVE) : a recipe that is compatible with sequential decision making and with neural network function approximators. It equips agents with a tractable posterior over all their parameters from which epistemic value uncertainty can be computed efficiently. We use the recipe to derive an epistemic Q-Learning agent and observe competitive performance on a series of benchmarks. Experiments confirm that the EVE recipe facilitates efficient exploration in hard exploration tasks.,2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26164,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26164,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploratory Combinatorial Optimization with Reinforcement Learning,Thomas Barrett;William Clements;Jakob Foerster;Alex Lvovsky,"Many real-world problems can be reduced to combinatorial optimization on a graph, where the subset or ordering of vertices that maximize some objective function must be found. With such tasks often NP-hard and analytically intractable, reinforcement learning( RL) has shown promise as a framework with which efficient heuristic methods to tackle these problems can be learned. Previous works construct the solution subset incrementally, adding one element at a time, however, the irreversible nature of this approach prevents the agent from revising its earlier decisions, which may be necessary given the complexity of the optimization task. We instead propose that the agent should seek to continuously improve the solution by learning to explore at test time. Our approach of exploratory combinatorial optimization( ECO-DQN) is, in principle, applicable to any combinatorial problem that can be defined on a graph. Experimentally, we show our method to produce state-of-the-art RL performance on the Maximum Cut problem. Moreover, because ECO-DQN can start from any arbitrary configuration, it can be combined with other search methods to further improve performance, which we demonstrate using a simple random search.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5723,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5723,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploratory Inference Learning for Scribble Supervised Semantic Segmentation,Chuanwei Zhou;Zhen Cui;Chunyan Xu;Cao Han;Jian Yang,"Scribble supervised semantic segmentation has achieved great advances in pseudo label exploitation, yet suffers insufficient label exploration for the mass of unannotated regions. In this work, we propose a novel exploratory inference learning( EIL) framework, which facilitates efficient probing on unlabeled pixels and promotes selecting confident candidates for boosting the evolved segmentation. The exploration of unannotated regions is formulated as an iterative decision-making process, where a policy searcher learns to infer in the unknown space and the reward to the exploratory policy is based on a contrastive measurement of candidates. In particular, we devise the contrastive reward with the intra-class attraction and the inter-class repulsion in the feature space w. r. t the pseudo labels. The unlabeled exploration and the labeled exploitation are jointly balanced to improve the segmentation, and framed in a close-looping end-to-end network. Comprehensive evaluations on the benchmark datasets( PASCAL VOC 2012 and PASCAL Context) demonstrate the superiority of our proposed EIL when compared with other state-of-the-art methods for the scribble-supervised semantic segmentation problem.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25488,10.1609/aaai.v37i3.25488,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploring Knowledge Graphs in an Interpretable Composite Approach for Text Entailment,Vivian S. Silva;Andr\'e9 Freitas;Siegfried Handschuh,"Recognizing textual entailment is a key task for many semantic applications, such as Question Answering, Text Summarization, and Information Extraction, among others. Entailment scenarios can range from a simple syntactic variation to more complex semantic relationships between pieces of text, but most approaches try a one-size-fits-all solution that usually favors some scenario to the detriment of another. We propose a composite approach for recognizing text entailment which analyzes the entailment pair to decide whether it must be resolved syntactically or semantically. We also make the answer interpretable: whenever an entailment is solved semantically, we explore a knowledge base composed of structured lexical definitions to generate natural language humanlike justifications, explaining the semantic relationship holding between the pieces of text. Besides outperforming wellestablished entailment algorithms, our composite approach gives an important step towards Explainable AI, using world knowledge to make the semantic reasoning process explicit and understandable.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4682,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017023,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Exploring Multiple Feature Spaces for Novel Entity Discovery,Zhaohui Wu;Yang Song;C. Giles,"Continuously discovering novel entities in news and Web data is important for Knowledge Base( KB) maintenance. One of the key challenges is to decide whether an entity mention refers to an in-KB or out-of-KB entity. We propose a principled approach that learns a novel entity classifier by modeling mention and entity representation into multiple feature spaces, including contextual, topical, lexical, neural embedding and query spaces. Different from most previous studies that address novel entity discovery as a submodule of entity linking systems, our model is more a generalized approach and can be applied as a pre-filtering step of novel entities for any entity linking systems. Experiments on three real-world datasets show that our method significantly outperforms existing methods on identifying novel entities.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10390,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10390,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: NLP and Text Mining,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Expressive Real-Time Intersection Scheduling,Rick Goldstein;Stephen Smith,"We present Expressive Real-time Intersection Scheduling( ERIS) , a schedule-driven control strategy for adaptive intersection control to reduce traffic congestion. ERIS maintains separate estimates for each lane approaching a traffic intersection allowing it to more accurately estimate the effects of scheduling decisions than previous schedule-driven approaches. We present a detailed description of the search space and A* search heuristic employed by ERIS to make scheduling decisions in real-time( every second). As a result of its increased expressiveness, ERIS outperforms a less expressive schedule-driven approach and a fully-actuated control method in a variety of simulated traffic environments.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12073,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12073,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Extensive-Form Perfect Equilibrium Computation in Two-Player Games,Gabriele Farina;Nicola Gatti,"We study the problem of computing an Extensive-Form Perfect Equilibrium( EFPE) in 2-player games. This equilibrium concept refines the Nash equilibrium requiring resilience with respect to a specific vanishing perturbation, representing mistakes of the players at each decision node. The scientific challenge is intrinsic to the EFPE definition: it requires a perturbation over the agent form, but the agent form is computationally inefficient due to the presence of highly nonlinear constraints. We show that the sequence form can be exploited in a non-trivial way and that, for general-sum games, finding an EFPE is equivalent to solving a suitably perturbed linear complementarity problem. We prove that Lemkes algorithm can be applied, showing that computing an EFPE is PPAD-complete. In the notable case of zero-sum games, the problem is in FP and can be solved by linear programming. Our algorithms also allow one to find a Nash equilibrium when players cannot perfectly control their moves, being subject to a given execution uncertainty, as is the case in most realistic physical settings.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10571,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10571,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Extracting Learned Discard and Knocking Strategies from a Gin Rummy Bot,Benjamin Goldstein;Jean-Pierre Astudillo Guerra;Emily Haigh;Bryan Cruz Ulloa;Jeremy Blum,"Various Gin Rummy strategy guides provide heuristics for human players to improve their gameplay. Often these heuristics are either conflicting or contain ambiguity that limits their applicability, especially for discard and end-of-game decisions. This paper describes an approach to analyzing the machine learning capabilities of a Gin Rummy agent to help resolve these conflicts and ambiguities. There are three main decision points in the game: when to draw from the discard pile, which card to discard from the players hand, and when to knock. The agent us-es a learning approach to estimate the expected utility for discards. An analysis of these utility values provides in-sight into resolving ambiguities in tips for discard decisions in human play. The agent\'92s end-of-game, or knocking, strategy was derived using Monte Carlo Counterfactual regret minimization( MCCFR). This approach was applied to estimate Nash equilibrium knocking strategies under different rules of the game. The analysis suggests that conflicts in the end-of-game playing tips are due in part to different rules used in common Gin Rummy variants.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17827,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17827,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Eye of the Beholder: Improved Relation Generalization for Text-Based Reinforcement Learning Agents,Keerthiram Murugesan;Subhajit Chaudhury;Kartik Talamadupula,"Text-based games( TBGs) have become a popular proving ground for the demonstration of learning-based agents that make decisions in quasi real-world settings. The crux of the problem for a reinforcement learning agent in such TBGs is identifying the objects in the world, and those objects relations with that world. While the recent use of text-based resources for increasing an agents knowledge and improving its generalization have shown promise, we posit in this paper that there is much yet to be learned from visual representations of these same worlds. Specifically, we propose to retrieve images that represent specific instances of text observations from the world and train our agents on such images. This improves the agents overall understanding of the game scene and objects relationships to the world around them, and the variety of visual representations on offer allow the agent to generate a better generalization of a relationship. We show that incorporating such images improves the performance of agents in various TBG settings.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21358,10.1609/aaai.v36i10.21358,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Facility\'92s Perspective to Fair Facility Location Problems,Chenhao Wang;Xiaoying Wu;Minming Li;Hau Chan,"We study the problem faced by a decision maker who wants to locate a set of facilities on a real line and allocate agents/items to the facilities. The items have given locations on the line, and can only be assigned to one of their closest facilities. The facilities are controlled by managers, who have additive utility over the items. An optimal solution that maximizes the( utilitarian or egalitarian) social welfare of the facilities may present a very unbalanced allocation of the items to the facilities and hence be perceived as unfair. In this paper, we are interested in fair allocation among facility managers and consider the well-studied proportionality and envy-freeness fairness notions and their relaxations. We assess the availability, existence, approximability, and the quality( price of fairness) of fair solutions, where the quality measures the system efficiency loss under a fair allocation compared to the one that maximizes the social welfare. Further, we show that one can find a Pareto-optimal solution in polynomial time.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16719,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16719,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Factored Models for Multiscale Decision-Making in Smart Grid Customers,Prashant Reddy;Manuela Veloso,"Active participation of customers in the management of demand, and renewable energy supply, is a critical goal of the Smart Grid vision. However, this is a complex problem with numerous scenarios that are difficult to test in field projects. Rich and scalable simulations are required to develop effective strategies and policies that elicit desirable behavior from customers. We present a versatile agent-based factored model that enables rich simulation scenarios across distinct customer types and varying agent granularity. We formally characterize the decisions to be made by Smart Grid customers as a multiscale decision-making problem and show how our factored model representation handles several temporal and contextual decisions by introducing a novel utility optimizing agent. We further contribute innovative algorithms for( i) statistical learning-based hierarchical Bayesian timeseries simulation, and( ii) adaptive capacity control using decision-theoretic approximation of multiattribute utility functions over multiple agents. Prominent among the approaches being studied to achieve active customer participation is one based on offering customers financial incentives through variable-price tariffs; we also contribute an effective solution to the problem of customer herding under such tariffs. We support our contributions with experimental results from simulations based on real-world data on an open Smart Grid simulation platform.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8169,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8169,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Factored Online Planning in Many-Agent POMDPs,Maris F. L. Galesloot;Thiago D. Sim\'e3o;Sebastian Junges;Nils Jansen,"In centralized multi-agent systems, often modeled as multi-agent partially observable Markov decision processes( MPOMDPs) , the action and observation spaces grow exponentially with the number of agents, making the value and belief estimation of single-agent online planning ineffective. Prior work partially tackles value estimation by exploiting the inherent structure of multi-agent settings via so-called coordination graphs. Additionally, belief estimation methods have been improved by incorporating the likelihood of observations into the approximation. However, the challenges of value estimation and belief estimation have only been tackled individually, which prevents existing methods from scaling to settings with many agents. Therefore, we address these challenges simultaneously. First, we introduce weighted particle filtering to a sample-based online planner for MPOMDPs. Second, we present a scalable approximation of the belief. Third, we bring an approach that exploits the typical locality of agent interactions to novel online planning algorithms for MPOMDPs operating on a so-called sparse particle filter tree. Our experimental evaluation against several state-of-the-art baselines shows that our methods( 1) are competitive in settings with only a few agents and( 2) improve over the baselines in the presence of many agents.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29689,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29689,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fair and Interpretable Algorithmic Hiring using Evolutionary Many Objective Optimization,Michael Geden;Joshua Andrews,"Hiring is a high-stakes decision-making process that balances the joint objectives of being fair and accurately selecting the top candidates. The industry standard method employs subject-matter experts to manually generate hiring algorithms; however, this method is resource intensive and finds sub-optimal solutions. Despite the recognized need for algorithmic hiring solutions to address these limitations, no reported method currently supports optimizing predictive objectives while complying to legal fairness standards. We present the novel application of Evolutionary Many-Objective Optimization( EMOO) methods to create the first fair, interpretable, and legally compliant algorithmic hiring approach. Using a proposed novel application of Dirichlet-based genetic operators for improved search, we compare state-of-the-art EMOO models( NSGA-III, SPEA2-SDE, bi-goal evolution) to expert solutions, verifying our results across three real world datasets across diverse organizational positions. Experimental results demonstrate the proposed EMOO models outperform human experts, consistently generate fairer hiring algorithms, and can provide additional lift when removing constraints required for human analysis.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17737,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17737,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fair Conformal Predictors for Applications in Medical Imaging,Charles Lu;Andr\'e9anne Lemay;Ken Chang;Katharina H\'f6bel;Jayashree Kalpathy-Cramer,"Deep learning has the potential to automate many clinically useful tasks in medical imaging. However translation of deep learning into clinical practice has been hindered by issues such as lack of the transparency and interpretability in these ``black box algorithms compared to traditional statistical methods. Specifically, many clinical deep learning models lack rigorous and robust techniques for conveying certainty( or lack thereof) in their predictions -- ultimately limiting their appeal for extensive use in medical decision-making. Furthermore, numerous demonstrations of algorithmic bias have increased hesitancy towards deployment of deep learning for clinical applications. To this end, we explore how conformal predictions can complement existing deep learning approaches by providing an intuitive way of expressing uncertainty while facilitating greater transparency to clinical users. In this paper, we conduct field interviews with radiologists to assess possible use-cases for conformal predictors. Using insights gathered from these interviews, we devise two clinical use-cases and empirically evaluate several methods of conformal predictions on a dermatology photography dataset for skin lesion classification. We show how to modify conformal predictions to be more adaptive to subgroup differences in patient skin tones through equalized coverage. Finally, we compare conformal prediction against measures of epistemic uncertainty.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21459,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21459,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fair Multivariate Adaptive Regression Splines for Ensuring Equity and Transparency,Parian Haghighat;Denisa G\'e1ndara;Lulu Kang;Hadis Anahideh,"Predictive analytics has been widely used in various domains, including education, to inform decision-making and improve outcomes. However, many predictive models are proprietary and inaccessible for evaluation or modification by researchers and practitioners, limiting their accountability and ethical design. Moreover, predictive models are often opaque and incomprehensible to the officials who use them, reducing their trust and utility. Furthermore, predictive models may introduce or exacerbate bias and inequity, as they have done in many sectors of society. Therefore, there is a need for transparent, interpretable, and fair predictive models that can be easily adopted and adapted by different stakeholders. In this paper, we propose a fair predictive model based on multivariate adaptive regression splines( MARS) that incorporates fairness measures in the learning process. MARS is a non-parametric regression model that performs feature selection, handles non-linear relationships, generates interpretable decision rules, and derives optimal splitting criteria on the variables. Specifically, we integrate fairness into the knot optimization algorithm and provide theoretical and empirical evidence of how it results in a fair knot placement. We apply our fairMARS model to real-world data and demonstrate its effectiveness in terms of accuracy and equity. Our paper contributes to the advancement of responsible and ethical predictive analytics for social good.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30211,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30211,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,FairFed: Enabling Group Fairness in Federated Learning,Yahya H. Ezzeldin;Shen Yan;Chaoyang He;Emilio Ferrara;A. Salman Avestimehr,"Training ML models which are fair across different demographic groups is of critical importance due to the increased integration of ML in crucial decision-making scenarios such as healthcare and recruitment. Federated learning has been viewed as a promising solution for collaboratively training machine learning models among multiple parties while maintaining their local data privacy. However, federated learning also poses new challenges in mitigating the potential bias against certain populations( e. g. , demographic groups) , as this typically requires centralized access to the sensitive information( e. g. , race, gender) of each datapoint. Motivated by the importance and challenges of group fairness in federated learning, in this work, we propose FairFed, a novel algorithm for fairness-aware aggregation to enhance group fairness in federated learning. Our proposed approach is server-side and agnostic to the applied local debiasing thus allowing for flexible use of different local debiasing methods across clients. We evaluate FairFed empirically versus common baselines for fair ML and federated learning and demonstrate that it provides fairer models, particularly under highly heterogeneous data distributions across clients. We also demonstrate the benefits of FairFed in scenarios involving naturally distributed real-life data collected from different geographical locations or departments within an organization.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25911,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25911,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness and Explainability: Bridging the Gap towards Fair Model Explanations,Yuying Zhao;Yu Wang;Tyler Derr,"While machine learning models have achieved unprecedented success in real-world applications, they might make biased/unfair decisions for specific demographic groups and hence result in discriminative outcomes. Although research efforts have been devoted to measuring and mitigating bias, they mainly study bias from the result-oriented perspective while neglecting the bias encoded in the decision-making procedure. This results in their inability to capture procedure-oriented bias, which therefore limits the ability to have a fully debiasing method. Fortunately, with the rapid development of explainable machine learning, explanations for predictions are now available to gain insights into the procedure. In this work, we bridge the gap between fairness and explainability by presenting a novel perspective of procedure-oriented fairness based on explanations. We identify the procedure-based bias by measuring the gap of explanation quality between different groups with Ratio-based and Value-based Explanation Fairness. The new metrics further motivate us to design an optimization objective to mitigate the procedure-based bias where we observe that it will also mitigate bias from the prediction. Based on our designed optimization objective, we propose a Comprehensive Fairness Algorithm( CFA) , which simultaneously fulfills multiple objectives - improving traditional fairness, satisfying explanation fairness, and maintaining the utility performance. Extensive experiments on real-world datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed CFA and highlight the importance of considering fairness from the explainability perspective. Our code: https://github. com/YuyingZhao/FairExplanations-CFA.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26344,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26344,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness and Welfare Through Redistribution When Utility Is Transferable,Ruggiero Cavallo,"We join the goals of two giant and related fields of research in group decision-making that have historically had little contact: fair division, and efficient mechanism design with monetary payments. To do this we adopt the standard mechanism design paradigm where utility is assumed to be quasilinear and thus transferable across agents. We generalize the traditional binary criteria of envy-freeness, proportionality, and efficiency( welfare) to measures of degree that range between 0 and 1. We demonstrate that in the canonical fair division settings under any allocatively-efficient mechanism the worst-case welfare rate is 0 and disproportionality rate is 1; in other words, the worst-case results are as bad as possible. This strongly motivates an average-case analysis. We then set as the goal identification of a mechanism that achieves high welfare, low envy, and low disproportionality in expectation across a spectrum of fair division settings. We establish that the VCG mechanism is not a satisfactory candidate, but the redistribution mechanism of [Bailey, 1997; Cavallo, 2006] is.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8263,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8263,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness Concepts for Indivisible Items with Externalities,Haris Aziz;Warut Suksompong;Zhaohong Sun;Toby Walsh,"We study a fair allocation problem of indivisible items under additive externalities in which each agent also receives utility from items that are assigned to other agents. This allows us to capture scenarios in which agents benefit from or compete against one another. We extend the well-studied properties of envy-freeness up to one item( EF1) and envy-freeness up to any item( EFX) to this setting, and we propose a new fairness concept called general fair share( GFS) , which applies to a more general public decision making model. We undertake a detailed study and present algorithms for finding fair allocations.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25680,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25680,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness for Robust Log Loss Classification,Ashkan Rezaei;Rizal Fathony;Omid Memarrast;Brian Ziebart,"Developing classification methods with high accuracy that also avoid unfair treatment of different groups has become increasingly important for data-driven decision making in social applications. Many existing methods enforce fairness constraints on a selected classifier( e. g. , logistic regression) by directly forming constrained optimizations. We instead re-derive a new classifier from the first principles of distributional robustness that incorporates fairness criteria into a worst-case logarithmic loss minimization. This construction takes the form of a minimax game and produces a parametric exponential family conditional distribution that resembles truncated logistic regression. We present the theoretical benefits of our approach in terms of its convexity and asymptotic convergence. We then demonstrate the practical advantages of our approach on three benchmark fairness datasets.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6002,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6002,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness in Decision-Making \'97 The Causal Explanation Formula,Junzhe Zhang;Elias Bareinboim,"AI plays an increasingly prominent role in society since decisions that were once made by humans are now delegated to automated systems. These systems are currently in charge of deciding bank loans, criminals incarceration, and the hiring of new employees, and its not difficult to envision that they will in the future underpin most of the decisions in society. Despite the high complexity entailed by this task, there is still not much understanding of basic properties of such systems. For instance, we currently cannot detect( neither explain nor correct) whether an AI system can be deemed fair( i. e. , is abiding by the decision-constraints agreed by society) or it is reinforcing biases and perpetuating a preceding prejudicial practice. Issues of discrimination have been discussed extensively in political and legal circles, but there exists still not much understanding of the formal conditions that a system must meet to be deemed fair. In this paper, we use the language of structural causality( Pearl, 2000) to fill in this gap. We start by introducing three new fine-grained measures of transmission of change from stimulus to effect, which we called counterfactual direct( Ctf-DE) , indirect( Ctf-IE) , and spurious( Ctf-SE) effects. We then derive what we call the causal explanation formula, which allows the AI designer to quantitatively evaluate fairness and explain the total observed disparity of decisions through different discriminatory mechanisms. We apply these measures to various discrimination analysis tasks and run extensive simulations, including detection, evaluation, and optimization of decision-making under fairness constraints. We conclude studying the trade-off between different types of fairness criteria( outcome and procedural) , and provide a quantitative approach to policy implementation and the design of fair AI systems.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11564,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11564,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness in Network Representation by Latent Structural Heterogeneity in Observational Data,Xin Du;Yulong Pei;Wouter Duivesteijn;Mykola Pechenizkiy,"While recent advances in machine learning put many focuses on fairness of algorithmic decision making, topics about fairness of representation, especially fairness of network representation, are still underexplored. Network representation learning learns a function mapping nodes to low-dimensional vectors. Structural properties, e. g. communities and roles, are preserved in the latent embedding space. In this paper, we argue that latent structural heterogeneity in the observational data could bias the classical network representation model. The unknown heterogeneous distribution across subgroups raises new challenges for fairness in machine learning. Pre-defined groups with sensitive attributes cannot properly tackle the potential unfairness of network representation. We propose a method which can automatically discover subgroups which are unfairly treated by the network representation model. The fairness measure we propose can evaluate complex targets with multi-degree interactions. We conduct randomly controlled experiments on synthetic datasets and verify our methods on real-world datasets. Both quantitative and quantitative results show that our method is effective to recover the fairness of network representations. Our research draws insight on how structural heterogeneity across subgroups restricted by attributes would affect the fairness of network representation learning.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5792,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5792,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fairness without Imputation: A Decision Tree Approach for Fair Prediction with Missing Values,Haewon Jeong;Hao Wang;Flavio P. Calmon,"We investigate the fairness concerns of training a machine learning model using data with missing values. Even though there are a number of fairness intervention methods in the literature, most of them require a complete training set as input. In practice, data can have missing values, and data missing patterns can depend on group attributes( e. g. gender or race). Simply applying off-the-shelf fair learning algorithms to an imputed dataset may lead to an unfair model. In this paper, we first theoretically analyze different sources of discrimination risks when training with an imputed dataset. Then, we propose an integrated approach based on decision trees that does not require a separate process of imputation and learning. Instead, we train a tree with missing incorporated as attribute( MIA) , which does not require explicit imputation, and we optimize a fairness-regularized objective function. We demonstrate that our approach outperforms existing fairness intervention methods applied to an imputed dataset, through several experiments on real-world datasets.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21189,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21189,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Faking Fairness via Stealthily Biased Sampling,Kazuto Fukuchi;Satoshi Hara;Takanori Maehara,"Auditing fairness of decision-makers is now in high demand. To respond to this social demand, several fairness auditing tools have been developed. The focus of this study is to raise an awareness of the risk of malicious decision-makers who fake fairness by abusing the auditing tools and thereby deceiving the social communities. The question is whether such a fraud of the decision-maker is detectable so that the society can avoid the risk of fake fairness. In this study, we answer this question negatively. We specifically put our focus on a situation where the decision-maker publishes a benchmark dataset as the evidence of his/her fairness and attempts to deceive a person who uses an auditing tool that computes a fairness metric. To assess the( un) detectability of the fraud, we explicitly construct an algorithm, the stealthily biased sampling, that can deliberately construct an evil benchmark dataset via subsampling. We show that the fraud made by the stealthily based sampling is indeed difficult to detect both theoretically and empirically.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5377,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5377,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Technical Track: AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,FanoutNet: A Neuralized PCB Fanout Automation Method Using Deep Reinforcement Learning,Haiyun Li;Jixin Zhang;Ning Xu;Mingyu Liu,"In modern electronic manufacturing processes, multi-layer Printed Circuit Board( PCB) routing requires connecting more than hundreds of nets with perplexing topology under complex routing constraints and highly limited resources, so that takes intense effort and time of human engineers. PCB fanout as a pre-design of PCB routing has been proved to be an ideal technique to reduce the complexity of PCB routing by pre-allocating resources and pre-routing. However, current PCB fanout design heavily relies on the experience of human engineers, and there is no existing solution for PCB fanout automation in industry, which limits the quality of PCB routing automation. To address the problem, we propose a neuralized PCB fanout method by deep reinforcement learning. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first in the literature to propose the automation method for PCB fanout. We combine with Convolution Neural Network( CNN) and attention-based network to train our fanout policy model and value model. The models learn representations of PCB layout and netlist to make decisions and evaluations in place of human engineers. We employ Proximal Policy Optimization( PPO) to update the parameters of the models. In addition, we apply our PCB fanout method to a PCB router to improve the quality of PCB routing. Extensive experimental results on real-world industrial PCB benchmarks demonstrate that our approach achieves 100% routability in all industrial cases and improves wire length by an average of 6. 8%, which makes a significant improvement compared with the state-of-the-art methods.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26030,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.26030,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fast and Interpretable Dynamics for Fisher Markets via Block-Coordinate Updates,Tianlong Nan;Yuan Gao;Christian Kroer,"We consider the problem of large-scale Fisher market equilibrium computation through scalable first-order optimization methods. It is well-known that market equilibria can be captured using structured convex programs such as the Eisenberg-Gale and Shmyrev convex programs. Highly performant deterministic full-gradient first-order methods have been developed for these programs. In this paper, we develop new block-coordinate first-order methods for computing Fisher market equilibria, and show that these methods have interpretations as t\'e2tonnement-style or proportional response-style dynamics where either buyers or items show up one at a time. We reformulate these convex programs and solve them using proximal block coordinate descent methods, a class of methods that update only a small number of coordinates of the decision variable in each iteration. Leveraging recent advances in the convergence analysis of these methods and structures of the equilibrium-capturing convex programs, we establish fast convergence rates of these methods.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25723,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25723,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fast and More Powerful Selective Inference for Sparse High-Order Interaction Model,Diptesh Das;Vo Nguyen Le Duy;Hiroyuki Hanada;Koji Tsuda;Ichiro Takeuchi,"Automated high-stake decision-making, such as medical diagnosis, requires models with high interpretability and reliability. We consider the sparse high-order interaction model as an interpretable and reliable model with a good prediction ability. However, finding statistically significant high-order interactions is challenging because of the intrinsically high dimensionality of the combinatorial effects. Another problem in data-driven modeling is the effect of ``cherry-picking( i. e. , selection bias). Our main contribution is extending the recently developed parametric programming approach for selective inference to high-order interaction models. An exhaustive search over the cherry tree( all possible interactions) can be daunting and impractical, even for small-sized problems. We introduced an efficient pruning strategy and demonstrated the computational efficiency and statistical power of the proposed method using both synthetic and real data.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21238,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21238,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fast Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Interval Consistent Graph for Driving Behavior Prediction,Masamichi Shimosaka;Junichi Sato;Kazuhito Takenaka;Kentarou Hitomi,"Maximum entropy inverse reinforcement learning( MaxEnt IRL) is an effective approach for learning the underlying rewards of demonstrated human behavior, while it is intractable in high-dimensional state space due to the exponential growth of calculation cost. In recent years, a few works on approximating MaxEnt IRL in large state spaces by graphs provide successful results, however, types of state space models are quite limited. In this work, we extend them to more generic large state space models with graphs where time interval consistency of Markov decision processes are guaranteed. We validate our proposed method in the context of driving behavior prediction. Experimental results using actual driving data confirm the superiority of our algorithm in both prediction performance and computational cost over other existing IRL frameworks.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10762,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10762,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fast Sparse Decision Tree Optimization via Reference Ensembles,Hayden McTavish;Chudi Zhong;Reto Achermann;Ilias Karimalis;Jacques Chen;Cynthia Rudin;Margo Seltzer,"Sparse decision tree optimization has been one of the most fundamental problems in AI since its inception and is a challenge at the core of interpretable machine learning. Sparse decision tree optimization is computationally hard, and despite steady effort since the 1960s, breakthroughs have been made on the problem only within the past few years, primarily on the problem of finding optimal sparse decision trees. However, current state-of-the-art algorithms often require impractical amounts of computation time and memory to find optimal or near-optimal trees for some real-world datasets, particularly those having several continuous-valued features. Given that the search spaces of these decision tree optimization problems are massive, can we practically hope to find a sparse decision tree that competes in accuracy with a black box machine learning model? We address this problem via smart guessing strategies that can be applied to any optimal branch-and-bound-based decision tree algorithm. The guesses come from knowledge gleaned from black box models. We show that by using these guesses, we can reduce the run time by multiple orders of magnitude while providing bounds on how far the resulting trees can deviate from the black boxs accuracy and expressive power. Our approach enables guesses about how to bin continuous features, the size of the tree, and lower bounds on the error for the optimal decision tree. Our experiments show that in many cases we can rapidly construct sparse decision trees that match the accuracy of black box models. To summarize: when you are having trouble optimizing, just guess.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21194,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21194,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fast-Tracking Stationary MOMDPs for Adaptive Management Problems,Martin P\'e9ron;Kai Becker;Peter Bartlett;Iadine Chad\'e8s,"Adaptive management is applied in conservation and natural resource management, and consists of making sequential decisions when the transition matrix is uncertain. Informally described as \'92learning by doing\'92, this approach aims to trade off between decisions that help achieve the objective and decisions that will yield a better knowledge of the true transition matrix. When the true transition matrix is assumed to be an element of a finite set of possible matrices, solving a mixed observability Markov decision process( MOMDP) leads to an optimal trade-off but is very computationally demanding. Under the assumption( common in adaptive management) that the true transition matrix is stationary, we propose a polynomial-time algorithm to find a lower bound of the value function. In the corners of the domain of the value function( belief space) , this lower bound is provably equal to the optimal value function. We also show that under further assumptions, it is a linear approximation of the optimal value function in a neighborhood around the corners. We evaluate the benefits of our approach by using it to initialize the solvers MO-SARSOP and Perseus on a novel computational sustainability problem and a recent adaptive management data challenge. Our approach leads to an improved initial value function and translates into significant computational gains for both solvers.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11173,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11173,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track on Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Faster Depth-Adaptive Transformers,Yijin Liu;Fandong Meng;Jie Zhou;Yufeng Chen;Jinan Xu,"Depth-adaptive neural networks can dynamically adjust depths according to the hardness of input words, and thus improve efficiency. The main challenge is how to measure such hardness and decide the required depths( i. e. , layers) to conduct. Previous works generally build a halting unit to decide whether the computation should continue or stop at each layer. As there is no specific supervision of depth selection, the halting unit may be under-optimized and inaccurate, which results in suboptimal and unstable performance when modeling sentences. In this paper, we get rid of the halting unit and estimate the required depths in advance, which yields a faster depth-adaptive model. Specifically, two approaches are proposed to explicitly measure the hardness of input words and estimate corresponding adaptive depth, namely 1) mutual information( MI) based estimation and 2) reconstruction loss based estimation. We conduct experiments on the text classification task with 24 datasets in various sizes and domains. Results confirm that our approaches can speed up the vanilla Transformer( up to 7x) while preserving high accuracy. Moreover, efficiency and robustness are significantly improved when compared with other depth-adaptive approaches.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17584,10.1609/aaai.v35i15.17584,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Faster Game Solving via Predictive Blackwell Approachability: Connecting Regret Matching and Mirror Descent,Gabriele Farina;Christian Kroer;Tuomas Sandholm,"Blackwell approachability is a framework for reasoning about repeated games with vector-valued payoffs. We introduce predictive Blackwell approachability, where an estimate of the next payoff vector is given, and the decision maker tries to achieve better performance based on the accuracy of that estimator. In order to derive algorithms that achieve predictive Blackwell approachability, we start by showing a powerful connection between four well-known algorithms. Follow-the-regularized-leader( FTRL) and online mirror descent( OMD) are the most prevalent regret minimizers in online convex optimization. In spite of this prevalence, the regret matching( RM) and regret matching+( RM+) algorithms have been preferred in the practice of solving large-scale games( as the local regret minimizers within the counterfactual regret minimization framework). We show that RM and RM+ are the algorithms that result from running FTRL and OMD, respectively, to select the halfspace to force at all times in the underlying Blackwell approachability game. By applying the predictive variants of FTRL or OMD to this connection, we obtain predictive Blackwell approachability algorithms, as well as predictive variants of RM and RM+. In experiments across 18 common zero-sum extensive-form benchmark games, we show that predictive RM+ coupled with counterfactual regret minimization converges vastly faster than the fastest prior algorithms( CFR+, DCFR, LCFR) across all games but two of the poker games, sometimes by two or more orders of magnitude.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16676,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16676,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Feature Fusion from Head to Tail for Long-Tailed Visual Recognition,Mengke Li;Zhikai HU;Yang Lu;Weichao Lan;Yiu-ming Cheung;Hui Huang,"The imbalanced distribution of long-tailed data presents a considerable challenge for deep learning models, as it causes them to prioritize the accurate classification of head classes but largely disregard tail classes. The biased decision boundary caused by inadequate semantic information in tail classes is one of the key factors contributing to their low recognition accuracy. To rectify this issue, we propose to augment tail classes by grafting the diverse semantic information from head classes, referred to as head-to-tail fusion( H2T). We replace a portion of feature maps from tail classes with those belonging to head classes. These fused features substantially enhance the diversity of tail classes. Both theoretical analysis and practical experimentation demonstrate that H2T can contribute to a more optimized solution for the decision boundary. We seamlessly integrate H2T in the classifier adjustment stage, making it a plug-and-play module. Its simplicity and ease of implementation allow for smooth integration with existing long-tailed recognition methods, facilitating a further performance boost. Extensive experiments on various long-tailed benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed H2T. The source code is available at https://github. com/Keke921/H2T.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29262,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29262,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Few Shot Transfer Learning BetweenWord Relatedness and Similarity Tasks Using A Gated Recurrent Siamese Network,James O' Neill;Paul Buitelaar,"Word similarity and word relatedness are fundamental to natural language processing and more generally, understanding how humans relate concepts in semantic memory. A growing number of datasets are being proposed as evaluation benchmarks, however, the heterogeneity and focus of each respective dataset makes it difficult to draw plausible conclusions as to how a unified semantic model would perform. Additionally, we want to identify the transferability of knowledge obtained from one task to another, within the same domain and across domains. Hence, this paper first presents an evaluation and comparison of eight chosen datasets tested using the best performing regression models. As a baseline, we present regression models that incorporate both lexical featuresand word embeddings to produce consistent and competitive results compared to the state of the art. We present our main contribution, the best performing model across seven of the eight datasets - a Gated Recurrent Siamese Networkthat learns relationships between lexical word definitions. A parameter transfer learning strategy is employed for theSiamese Network. Subsequently, we present a secondary contribution which is the best performing non-sequential model:an Inductive and Transductive Transfer Learning strategy fortransferring decision trees within a Random Forest to a target task that is learned from only few instances. The method involves measuring semantic distance between hidden factored matrix representations of decision tree traversal matrices.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11995,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11995,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Finding Good Subtrees for Constraint Optimization Problems Using Frequent Pattern Mining,Hongbo Li;Jimmy Lee;He Mi;Minghao Yin,"Making good decisions at the top of a search tree is important for finding good solutions early in constraint optimization. In this paper, we propose a method employing frequent pattern mining( FPM) , a classic datamining technique, to find good subtrees for solving constraint optimization problems. We demonstrate that applying FPM in a small number of random high-quality feasible solutions enables us to identify subtrees containing optimal solutions in more than 55% of problem instances for four real world benchmark problems. The method works as a plugin that can be combined with any search strategy for branch-and-bound search. Exploring the identified subtrees first, the method brings substantial improvements for four efficient search strategies in both total runtime and runtime of finding optimal solutions.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5518,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5518,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Finding Nontrivial Minimum Fixed Points in Discrete Dynamical Systems: Complexity, Special Case Algorithms and Heuristics",Zirou Qiu;Chen Chen;Madhav Marathe;S.S. Ravi;Daniel J. Rosenkrantz;Richard Stearns;Anil Vullikanti,"Networked discrete dynamical systems are often used to model the spread of contagions and decision-making by agents in coordination games. Fixed points of such dynamical systems represent configurations to which the system converges. In the dissemination of undesirable contagions( such as rumors and misinformation) , convergence to fixed points with a small number of affected nodes is a desirable goal. Motivated by such considerations, we formulate a novel optimization problem of finding a nontrivial fixed point of the system with the minimum number of affected nodes. We establish that, unless P = NP, there is no polynomial-time algorithm for approximating a solution to this problem to within the factor n^( 1 - epsilon) for any constant epsilon > 0. To cope with this computational intractability, we identify several special cases for which the problem can be solved efficiently. Further, we introduce an integer linear program to address the problem for networks of reasonable sizes. For solving the problem on larger networks, we propose a general heuristic framework along with greedy selection methods. Extensive experimental results on real-world networks demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed heuristics. A full version of the manuscript, source code and data are available at: https://github. com/bridgelessqiu/NMIN-FPE",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21174,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21174,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fine-Grained Knowledge Selection and Restoration for Non-exemplar Class Incremental Learning,Jiang-Tian Zhai;Xialei Liu;Lu Yu;Ming-Ming Cheng,"Non-exemplar class incremental learning aims to learn both the new and old tasks without accessing any training data from the past. This strict restriction enlarges the difficulty of alleviating catastrophic forgetting since all techniques can only be applied to current task data. Considering this challenge, we propose a novel framework of fine-grained knowledge selection and restoration. The conventional knowledge distillation-based methods place too strict constraints on the network parameters and features to prevent forgetting, which limits the training of new tasks. To loose this constraint, we proposed a novel fine-grained selective patch-level distillation to adaptively balance plasticity and stability. Some task-agnostic patches can be used to preserve the decision boundary of the old task. While some patches containing the important foreground are favorable for learning the new task. Moreover, we employ a task-agnostic mechanism to generate more realistic prototypes of old tasks with the current task sample for reducing classifier bias for fine-grained knowledge restoration. Extensive experiments on CIFAR100, TinyImageNet and ImageNet-Subset demonstrate the effectiveness of our method. Code is available at https://github. com/scok30/vit-cil.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28523,10.1609/aaai.v38i7.28523,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,FLEX: Faithful Linguistic Explanations for Neural Net Based Model Decisions,Sandareka Wickramanayake;Wynne Hsu;Mong Li Lee,"Explaining the decisions of a Deep Learning Network is imperative to safeguard end-user trust. Such explanations must be intuitive, descriptive, and faithfully explain why a model makes its decisions. In this work, we propose a framework called FLEX( Faithful Linguistic EXplanations) that generates post-hoc linguistic justifications to rationalize the decision of a Convolutional Neural Network. FLEX explains a model\'92s decision in terms of features that are responsible for the decision. We derive a novel way to associate such features to words, and introduce a new decision-relevance metric that measures the faithfulness of an explanation to a model\'92s reasoning. Experiment results on two benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed framework can generate discriminative and faithful explanations compared to state-of-the-art explanation generators. We also show how FLEX can generate explanations for images of unseen classes as well as automatically annotate objects in images.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4100,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012539,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Flexible Budgets in Restless Bandits: A Primal-Dual Algorithm for Efficient Budget Allocation,Paula Rodriguez Diaz;Jackson A. Killian;Lily Xu;Arun Sai Suggala;Aparna Taneja;Milind Tambe,"Restless multi-armed bandits( RMABs) are an important model to optimize allocation of limited resources in sequential decision-making settings. Typical RMABs assume the budget --- the number of arms pulled --- to be fixed for each step in the planning horizon. However, for realistic real-world planning, resources are not necessarily limited at each planning step; we may be able to distribute surplus resources in one round to an earlier or later round. In real-world planning settings, this flexibility in budget is often constrained to within a subset of consecutive planning steps, e. g. , weekly planning of a monthly budget. In this paper we define a general class of RMABs with flexible budget, which we term F-RMABs, and provide an algorithm to optimally solve for them. We derive a min-max formulation to find optimal policies for F-RMABs and leverage gradient primal-dual algorithms to solve for reward-maximizing policies with flexible budgets. We introduce a scheme to sample expected gradients to apply primal-dual algorithms to the F-RMAB setting and make an otherwise computationally expensive approach tractable. Additionally, we provide heuristics that trade off solution quality for efficiency and present experimental comparisons of different F-RMAB solution approaches.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26427,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26427,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Focus-Then-Decide: Segmentation-Assisted Reinforcement Learning,Chao Chen;Jiacheng Xu;Weijian Liao;Hao Ding;Zongzhang Zhang;Yang Yu;Rui Zhao,"Visual Reinforcement Learning( RL) is a promising approach to achieve human-like intelligence. However, it currently faces challenges in learning efficiently within noisy environments. In contrast, humans can quickly identify task-relevant objects in distraction-filled surroundings by applying previously acquired common knowledge. Recently, foundational models in natural language processing and computer vision have achieved remarkable successes, and the common knowledge within these models can significantly benefit downstream task training. Inspired by these achievements, we aim to incorporate common knowledge from foundational models into visual RL. We propose a novel Focus-Then-Decide( FTD) framework, allowing the agent to make decisions based solely on task-relevant objects. To achieve this, we introduce an attention mechanism to select task-relevant objects from the object set returned by a foundational segmentation model, and only use the task-relevant objects for the subsequent training of the decision module. Additionally, we specifically employed two generic self-supervised objectives to facilitate the rapid learning of this attention mechanism. Experimental results on challenging tasks based on DeepMind Control Suite and Franka Emika Robotics demonstrate that our method can quickly and accurately pinpoint objects of interest in noisy environments. Consequently, it achieves a significant performance improvement over current state-of-the-art algorithms. Project Page: https://www. lamda. nju. edu. cn/chenc/FTD. html Code: https://github. com/LAMDA-RL/FTD",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29002,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.29002,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,FOCUS: Flexible Optimizable Counterfactual Explanations for Tree Ensembles,Ana Lucic;Harrie Oosterhuis;Hinda Haned;Maarten de Rijke,"Model interpretability has become an important problem in machine learning( ML) due to the increased effect algorithmic decisions have on humans. Counterfactual explanations can help users understand not only why ML models make certain decisions, but also how these decisions can be changed. We frame the problem of finding counterfactual explanations as an optimization task and extend previous work that could only be applied to differentiable models. In order to accommodate non-differentiable models such as tree ensembles, we use probabilistic model approximations in the optimization framework. We introduce an approximation technique that is effective for finding counterfactual explanations for predictions of the original model and show that our counterfactual examples are significantly closer to the original instances than those produced by other methods specifically designed for tree ensembles.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20468,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20468,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Focused Inference and System P,Marco Wilhelm;Gabriele Kern-Isberner,"We bring in the concept of focused inference into the field of qualitative nonmonotonic reasoning by applying focused inference to System P. The idea behind drawing focused inferences is to concentrate on knowledge which seems to be relevant for answering a query while completely disregarding the remaining knowledge even at the risk of missing some meaningful information. Focused inference is motivated by mimicking snap decisions of human reasoners and aims on rapidly drawing still reasonable inferences from large sets of knowledge. In this paper, we define a series of query-dependent, syntactically-driven focused inference relations, elaborate on their formal properties, and show that the series converges against System P. We take advantage of this result in form of an anytime algorithm for drawing inferences which is accompanied by a thorough complexity analysis.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16808,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16808,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Forced Exploration in Bandit Problems,Qi Han;Li Zhu;Fei Guo,"The multi-armed bandit( MAB) is a classical sequential decision problem. Most work requires assumptions about the reward distribution( e. g. , bounded) , while practitioners may have difficulty obtaining information about these distributions to design models for their problems, especially in non-stationary MAB problems. This paper aims to design a multi-armed bandit algorithm that can be implemented without using information about the reward distribution while still achieving substantial regret upper bounds. To this end, we propose a novel algorithm alternating between greedy rule and forced exploration. Our method can be applied to Gaussian, Bernoulli and other subgaussian distributions, and its implementation does not require additional information. We employ a unified analysis method for different forced exploration strategies and provide problem-dependent regret upper bounds for stationary and piecewise-stationary settings. Furthermore, we compare our algorithm with popular bandit algorithms on different reward distributions.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29117,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29117,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Formally Verified Solution Methods for Markov Decision Processes,Maximilian Sch\'e4ffeler;Mohammad Abdulaziz,"We formally verify executable algorithms for solving Markov decision processes( MDPs) in the interactive theorem prover Isabelle/HOL. We build on existing formalizations of probability theory to analyze the expected total reward criterion on finite and infinite-horizon problems. Our developments formalize the Bellman equation and give conditions under which optimal policies exist. Based on this analysis, we verify dynamic programming algorithms to solve tabular MDPs. We evaluate the formally verified implementations experimentally on standard problems, compare them with state-of-the-art systems, and show that they are practical.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26759,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26759,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Forming Probably Stable Communities with Limited Interactions,Ayumi Igarashi;Jakub Sliwinski;Yair Zick,"A community needs to be partitioned into disjoint groups; each community member has an underlying preference over the groups that they would want to be a member of. We are interested in finding a stable community structure: one where no subset of members S wants to deviate from the current structure. We model this setting as a hedonic game, where players are connected by an underlying interaction network, and can only consider joining groups that are connected subgraphs of the underlying graph. We analyze the relation between network structure, and one\'92s capability to infer statistically stable( also known as PAC stable) player partitions from data. We show that when the interaction network is a forest, one can efficiently infer PAC stable coalition structures. Furthermore, when the underlying interaction graph is not a forest, efficient PAC stabilizability is no longer achievable. Thus, our results completely characterize when one can leverage the underlying graph structure in order to compute PAC stable outcomes for hedonic games. Finally, given an unknown underlying interaction network, we show that it is NP-hard to decide whether there exists a forest consistent with data samples from the network.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4035,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012053,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fourier Feature Approximations for Periodic Kernels in Time-Series Modelling,Anthony Tompkins;Fabio Ramos,"Gaussian Processes( GPs) provide an extremely powerful mechanism to model a variety of problems but incur an O( N3) complexity in the number of data samples. Common approximation methods rely on what are often termed inducing points but still typically incur an O( NM2) complexity in the data and corresponding inducing points. Using Random Fourier Feature( RFF) maps, we overcome this by transforming the problem into a Bayesian Linear Regression formulation upon which we apply a Bayesian Variational treatment that also allows learning the corresponding kernel hyperparameters, likelihood and noise parameters. In this paper we introduce an alternative method using Fourier series to obtain spectral representations of common kernels, in particular for periodic warpings, which surprisingly have a convergent, non-random form using special functions, requiring fewer spectral features to approximate their corresponding kernel to high accuracy. Using this, we can fuse the Random Fourier Feature spectral representations of common kernels with their periodic counterparts to show how they can more effectively and expressively learn patterns in time-series for both interpolation and extrapolation. This method combines robustness, scalability and equally importantly, interpretability through a symbolic declarative grammar that is both functionally and humanly intuitive \'97 a property that is crucial for explainable decision making. Using probabilistic programming and Variational Inference we are able to efficiently optimise over these rich functional representations. We show significantly improved Gram matrix approximation errors, and also demonstrate the method in several time-series problems comparing other commonly used approaches such as recurrent neural networks.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11696,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11696,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fractional Deep Reinforcement Learning for Age-Minimal Mobile Edge Computing,Lyudong Jin;Ming Tang;Meng Zhang;Hao Wang,"Mobile edge computing( MEC) is a promising paradigm for real-time applications with intensive computational needs( e. g. , autonomous driving) , as it can reduce the processing delay. In this work, we focus on the timeliness of computational-intensive updates, measured by Age-of-Information( AoI) , and study how to jointly optimize the task updating and offloading policies for AoI with fractional form. Specifically, we consider edge load dynamics and formulate a task scheduling problem to minimize the expected time-average AoI. The uncertain edge load dynamics, the nature of the fractional objective, and hybrid continuous-discrete action space( due to the joint optimization) make this problem challenging and existing approaches not directly applicable. To this end, we propose a fractional reinforcement learning( RL) framework and prove its convergence. We further design a model-free fractional deep RL( DRL) algorithm, where each device makes scheduling decisions with the hybrid action space without knowing the system dynamics and decisions of other devices. Experimental results show that our proposed algorithms reduce the average AoI by up to 57. 6% compared with several non-fractional benchmarks.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29192,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29192,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fractional Skipping: Towards Finer-Grained Dynamic CNN Inference,Jianghao Shen;Yue Wang;Pengfei Xu;Yonggan Fu;Zhangyang Wang;Yingyan Lin,"While increasingly deep networks are still in general desired for achieving state-of-the-art performance, for many specific inputs a simpler network might already suffice. Existing works exploited this observation by learning to skip convolutional layers in an input-dependent manner. However, we argue their binary decision scheme, i. e. , either fully executing or completely bypassing one layer for a specific input, can be enhanced by introducing finer-grained, \'93softer\'94 decisions. We therefore propose a Dynamic Fractional Skipping( DFS) framework. The core idea of DFS is to hypothesize layer-wise quantization( to different bitwidths) as intermediate \'93soft\'94 choices to be made between fully utilizing and skipping a layer. For each input, DFS dynamically assigns a bitwidth to both weights and activations of each layer, where fully executing and skipping could be viewed as two \'93extremes\'94( i. e. , full bitwidth and zero bitwidth). In this way, DFS can \'93fractionally\'94 exploit a layers expressive power during input-adaptive inference, enabling finer-grained accuracy-computational cost trade-offs. It presents a unified view to link input-adaptive layer skipping and input-adaptive hybrid quantization. Extensive experimental results demonstrate the superior tradeoff between computational cost and model expressive power( accuracy) achieved by DFS. More visualizations also indicate a smooth and consistent transition in the DFS behaviors, especially the learned choices between layer skipping and different quantizations when the total computational budgets vary, validating our hypothesis that layer quantization could be viewed as intermediate variants of layer skipping. Our source code and supplementary material are available at https://github. com/Torment123/DFS.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6025,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6025,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,From Hope to Safety: Unlearning Biases of Deep Models via Gradient Penalization in Latent Space,Maximilian Dreyer;Frederik Pahde;Christopher J. Anders;Wojciech Samek;Sebastian Lapuschkin,"Deep Neural Networks are prone to learning spurious correlations embedded in the training data, leading to potentially biased predictions. This poses risks when deploying these models for high-stake decision-making, such as in medical applications. Current methods for post-hoc model correction either require input-level annotations which are only possible for spatially localized biases, or augment the latent feature space, thereby hoping to enforce the right reasons. We present a novel method for model correction on the concept level that explicitly reduces model sensitivity towards biases via gradient penalization. When modeling biases via Concept Activation Vectors, we highlight the importance of choosing robust directions, as traditional regression-based approaches such as Support Vector Machines tend to result in diverging directions. We effectively mitigate biases in controlled and real-world settings on the ISIC, Bone Age, ImageNet and CelebA datasets using VGG, ResNet and EfficientNet architectures. Code and Appendix are available on https://github. com/frederikpahde/rrclarc.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30096,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30096,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,From the Lab to the Classroom and Beyond: Extending a Game-Based Research Platform for Teaching AI to Diverse Audiences,Nicole Sintov;Debarun Kar;Thanh Nguyen;Fei Fang;Kevin Hoffman;Arnaud Lyet;Milind Tambe,"Recent years have seen increasing interest in AI from outside the AI community. This is partly due to applications based on AI that have been used in real-world domains, for example, the successful deployment of game theory-based decision aids in security domains. This paper describes our teaching approach for introducing the AI concepts underlying security games to diverse audiences. We adapted a game-based research platform that served as a testbed for recent research advances in computational game theory into a set of interactive role-playing games. We guided learners in playing these games as part of our teaching strategy, which also included didactic instruction and interactive exercises on broader AI topics. We describe our experience in applying this teaching approach to diverse audiences, including students of an urban public high school, university undergraduates, and security domain experts who protect wildlife. We evaluate our approach based on results from the games and participant surveys.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9854,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9854,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium Full Paper,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Fully-Dynamic Decision Trees,Marco Bressan;Gabriel Damay;Mauro Sozio,"We develop the first fully dynamic algorithm that maintains a decision tree over an arbitrary sequence of insertions and deletions of labeled examples. Given \uc0\u949 >0 our algorithm guarantees that, at every point in time, every node of the decision tree uses a split with Gini gain within an additive \u949  of the optimum. For real-valued features the algorithm has an amortized running time per insertion/deletion of O( ( d\'b7log\'b3n) /\u949 \'b2) , which improves to O( ( d\'b7log\'b2n) /\u949 ) for binary or categorical features, while it uses space O( n\'b7d) , where n is the maximum number of examples at any point in time and d is the number of features. Our algorithm is nearly optimal, as we show that any algorithm with similar guarantees requires amortized running time \u937 ( d) and space \u937 ( n\'b7d/polylog( nd) ). We complement our theoretical results with an extensive experimental evaluation on real-world data, showing the effectiveness of our algorithm.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25838,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25838,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Function Approximation for Solving Stackelberg Equilibrium in Large Perfect Information Games,Chun Kai Ling;J. Zico Kolter;Fei Fang,"Function approximation( FA) has been a critical component in solving large zero-sum games. Yet, little attention has been given towards FA in solving general-sum extensive-form games, despite them being widely regarded as being computationally more challenging than their fully competitive or cooperative counterparts. A key challenge is that for many equilibria in general-sum games, no simple analogue to the state value function used in Markov Decision Processes and zero-sum games exists. In this paper, we propose learning the Enforceable Payoff Frontier( EPF) ---a generalization of the state value function for general-sum games. We approximate the optimal Stackelberg extensive-form correlated equilibrium by representing EPFs with neural networks and training them by using appropriate backup operations and loss functions. This is the first method that applies FA to the Stackelberg setting, allowing us to scale to much larger games while still enjoying performance guarantees based on FA error. Additionally, our proposed method guarantees incentive compatibility and is easy to evaluate without having to depend on self-play or approximate best-response oracles.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25715,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25715,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Future Aware Pricing and Matching for Sustainable On-Demand Ride Pooling,Xianjie Zhang;Pradeep Varakantham;Hao Jiang,"The popularity of on-demand ride pooling is owing to the benefits offered to customers( lower prices) , taxi drivers( higher revenue) , environment( lower carbon footprint due to fewer vehicles) and aggregation companies like Uber( higher revenue). To achieve these benefits, two key interlinked challenges have to be solved effectively:( a) pricing -- setting prices to customer requests for taxis; and( b) matching -- assignment of customers( that accepted the prices) to taxis/cars. Traditionally, both these challenges have been studied individually and using myopic approaches( considering only current requests) , without considering the impact of current matching on addressing future requests. In this paper, we develop a novel framework that handles the pricing and matching problems together, while also considering the future impact of the pricing and matching decisions. In our experimental results on a real-world taxi dataset, we demonstrate that our framework can significantly improve revenue( up to 17% and on average 6. 4%) in a sustainable manner by reducing the number of vehicles( up to 14% and on average 10. 6%) required to obtain a given fixed revenue and the overall distance travelled by vehicles( up to 11. 1% and on average 3. 7%). That is to say, we are able to provide an ideal win-win scenario for all stakeholders( customers, drivers, aggregator, environment) involved by obtaining higher revenue for customers, drivers, aggregator( ride pooling company) while being good for the environment( due to fewer number of vehicles on the road and lesser fuel consumed).",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26710,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26710,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,G2C: A Generator-to-Classifier Framework Integrating Multi-Stained Visual Cues for Pathological Glomerulus Classification,Bingzhe Wu;Xiaolu Zhang;Shiwan Zhao;Lingxi Xie;Caihong Zeng;Zhihong Liu;Guangyu Sun,"Pathological glomerulus classification plays a key role in the diagnosis of nephropathy. As the difference between different subcategories is subtle, doctors often refer to slides from different staining methods to make decisions. However, creating correspondence across various stains is labor-intensive, bringing major difficulties in collecting data and training a vision-based algorithm to assist nephropathy diagnosis. This paper provides an alternative solution for integrating multi-stained visual cues for glomerulus classification. Our approach, named generator-to-classifier( G2C) , is a twostage framework. Given an input image from a specified stain, several generators are first applied to estimate its appearances in other staining methods, and a classifier follows to combine visual cues from different stains for prediction( whether it is pathological, or which type of pathology it has). We optimize these two stages in a joint manner. To provide a reasonable initialization, we pre-train the generators in an unlabeled reference set under an unpaired image-to-image translation task, and then fine-tune them together with the classifier. We conduct experiments on a glomerulus type classification dataset collected by ourselves( there are no publicly available datasets for this purpose). Although joint optimization slightly harms the authenticity of the generated patches, it boosts classification performance, suggesting more effective visual cues are extracted in an automatic way. We also transfer our model to a public dataset for breast cancer classification, and outperform the state-of-the-arts significantly.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3916,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011214,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Game Implementation: What Are the Obstructions?,Jiehua Chen;Seyedeh Negar Layegh Khavidaki;Sebastian Vincent Haydn;Sofia Simola;Manuel Sorge,"In many applications, we want to influence the decisions of independent agents by designing incentives for their actions. We revisit a fundamental problem in this area, called GAME IMPLEMENTATION: Given a game in standard form and a set of desired strategies, can we design a set of payment promises such that if the players take the payment promises into account, then all undominated strategies are desired? Furthermore, we aim to minimize the cost, that is, the worst-case amount of payments. We study the tractability of computing such payment promises and determine more closely what obstructions we may have to overcome in doing so. We show that GAME IMPLEMENTATION is NP-hard even for two players, solving in particular a long-standing open question and suggesting more restrictions are necessary to obtain tractability results. We thus study the regime in which players have only a small constant number of strategies and obtain the following. First, this case remains NP-hard even if each player\'92s utility depends only on three others. Second, we repair a flawed efficient algorithm for the case of both small number of strategies and small number of players. Among further results, we characterize sets of desired strategies that can be implemented at zero cost as a generalization of Nash equilibria.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25690,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25690,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Gamma-Nets: Generalizing Value Estimation over Timescale,Craig Sherstan;Shibhansh Dohare;James MacGlashan;Johannes G\'fcnther;Patrick M. Pilarski,"Temporal abstraction is a key requirement for agents making decisions over long time horizons\'97a fundamental challenge in reinforcement learning. There are many reasons why value estimates at multiple timescales might be useful; recent work has shown that value estimates at different time scales can be the basis for creating more advanced discounting functions and for driving representation learning. Further, predictions at many different timescales serve to broaden an agents model of its environment. One predictive approach of interest within an online learning setting is general value function( GVFs) , which represent models of an agents world as a collection of predictive questions each defined by a policy, a signal to be predicted, and a prediction timescale. In this paper we present \uc0\u915 -nets, a method for generalizing value function estimation over timescale, allowing a given GVF to be trained and queried for arbitrary timescales so as to greatly increase the predictive ability and scalability of a GVF-based model. The key to our approach is to use timescale as one of the value estimators inputs. As a result, the prediction target for any timescale is available at every timestep and we are free to train on any number of timescales. We first provide two demonstrations by 1) predicting a square wave and 2) predicting sensorimotor signals on a robot arm using a linear function approximator. Next, we empirically evaluate \u915 -nets in the deep reinforcement learning setting using policy evaluation on a set of Atari video games. Our results show that \u915 -nets can be effective for predicting arbitrary timescales, with only a small cost in accuracy as compared to learning estimators for fixed timescales. \u915 -nets provide a method for accurately and compactly making predictions at many timescales without requiring a priori knowledge of the task, making it a valuable contribution to ongoing work on model-based planning, representation learning, and lifelong learning algorithms.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6027,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6027,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,GaSPing for Utility,Mengyang Gu;Debarun Bhattacharjya;Dharmashankar Subramanian,"High-consequence decisions often require a detailed investigation of a decision makers preferences, as represented by a utility function. Inferring a decision makers utility function through assessments typically involves an elicitation phase where the decision maker responds to a series of elicitation queries, followed by an estimation phase where the state-of-the-art for direct elicitation approaches in practice is to either fit responses to a parametric form or perform linear interpolation. We introduce a Bayesian nonparametric method involving Gaussian stochastic processes for estimating a utility function from direct elicitation responses. Advantages include the flexibility to fit a large class of functions, favorable theoretical properties, and a fully probabilistic view of the decision makers preference properties including risk attitude. Through extensive simulation experiments as well as two real datasets from management science, we demonstrate that the proposed approach results in better function fitting.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5648,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5648,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Gaussian Process Planning with Lipschitz Continuous Reward Functions: Towards Unifying Bayesian Optimization, Active Learning, and Beyond",Chun Kai Ling;Kian Hsiang Low;Patrick Jaillet,"This paper presents a novel nonmyopic adaptive Gaussian process planning( GPP) framework endowed with a general class of Lipschitz continuous reward functions that can unify some active learning/sensing and Bayesian optimization criteria and offer practitioners some flexibility to specify their desired choices for defining new tasks/problems. In particular, it utilizes a principled Bayesian sequential decision problem framework for jointly and naturally optimizing the exploration-exploitation trade-off. In general, the resulting induced GPP policy cannot be derived exactly due to an uncountable set of candidate observations. A key contribution of our work here thus lies in exploiting the Lipschitz continuity of the reward functions to solve for a nonmyopic adaptive epsilon-optimal GPP( epsilon-GPP) policy. To plan in real time, we further propose an asymptotically optimal, branch-and-bound anytime variant of epsilon-GPP with performance guarantee. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of our epsilon-GPP policy and its anytime variant in Bayesian optimization and an energy harvesting task.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10210,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10210,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,GaussianPath:A Bayesian Multi-Hop Reasoning Framework for Knowledge Graph Reasoning,Guojia Wan;Bo Du,"Recently, multi-hop reasoning over incomplete Knowledge Graphs( KGs) has attracted wide attention due to its desirable interpretability for downstream tasks, such as question answer and knowledge graph completion. Multi-Hop reasoning is a typical sequential decision problem, which can be formulated as a Markov decision process( MDP). Subsequently, some reinforcement learning( RL) based approaches are proposed and proven effective to train an agent for reasoning paths sequentially until reaching the target answer. However, these approaches assume that an entity/relation representation follows a one-point distribution. In fact, different entities and relations may contain different certainties. On the other hand, since REINFORCE used for updating the policy in these approaches is a biased policy gradients method, the agent is prone to be stuck in high reward paths rather than broad reasoning paths, which leads to premature and suboptimal exploitation. In this paper, we consider a Bayesian reinforcement learning paradigm to harness uncertainty into multi-hop reasoning. By incorporating uncertainty into the representation layer, the agent trained by RL has uncertainty in a region of the state space then it should be more efficient in exploring unknown or less known part of the KG. In our approach, we build a Bayesian Q-learning architecture as a state-action value function for estimating the expected long-term reward. As initialized by Gaussian prior or pre-trained prior distribution, the representation layer drives uncertainty that allows regularizing the training. We conducted extensive experiments on multiple KGs. Experimental results show a superior performance than other baselines, especially significant improvements on the automated extracted KG.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16565,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16565,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generalising Planning Environment Redesign,Alberto Pozanco;Ramon Fraga Pereira;Daniel Borrajo,"In Environment Design, one interested party seeks to affect another agents decisions by applying changes to the environment. Most research on planning environment( re) design assumes the interested partys objective is to facilitate the recognition of goals and plans, and search over the space of environment modifications to find the minimal set of changes that simplify those tasks and optimise a particular metric. This search space is usually intractable, so existing approaches devise metric-dependent pruning techniques for performing search more efficiently. This results in approaches that are not able to generalise across different objectives and/or metrics. In this paper, we argue that the interested party could have objectives and metrics that are not necessarily related to recognising agents goals or plans. Thus, to generalise the task of Planning Environment Redesign, we develop a general environment redesign approach that is metric-agnostic and leverages recent research on top-quality planning to efficiently redesign planning environments according to any interested partys objective and metric. Experiments over a set of environment redesign benchmarks show that our general approach outperforms existing approaches when using well-known metrics, such as facilitating the recognition of goals, as well as its effectiveness when solving environment redesign tasks that optimise a novel set of different metrics.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30003,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30003,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generalized Confidence Constraints,Guillaume Perez;Steve Malalel;Gael Glorian;Victor Jung;Alexandre Papadopoulos;Marie Pelleau;Wijnand Suijlen;Jean-Charles R\'e9gin;Arnaud Lallouet,"In robust optimization, finding a solution that solely respects the constraints is not enough. Usually, the uncertainty and unknown parameters of the model are represented by random variables. In such conditions, a good solution is a solution robust to most-likely assignments of these random variables. Recently, the Confidence constraint has been introduced by Mercier-Aubin et al. in order to enforce this type of robustness in constraint programming. Unfortunately, it is restricted to a conjunction of binary inequalities In this paper, we generalize the Confidence constraint to any constraint and propose an implementation based on Multi-valued Decision Diagrams( MDDs). The Confidence constraint is defined over a vector of random variables. For a given constraint C, and given a threshold, the Confidence constraint ensures that the probability for C to be satisfied by a sample of the random variables is greater than the threshold. We propose to use MDDs to represent the constraints on the random variables. MDDs are an efficient tool for representing combinatorial constraints, thanks to their exponential compression power. Here, both random and decision variables are stored in the MDD, and propagation rules are proposed for removing values of decision variables that cannot lead to robust solutions. Furthermore, for several constraints, we show that decision variables can be omitted from the MDD because lighter filtering algorithms are sufficient. This leads to gain an exponential factor in the MDD size. The experimental results obtained on a chemical deliveries problem in factories \'96 where the chemicals consumption are uncertain \'96 shows the efficiency of the proposed approach.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25523,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25523,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generalized Emphatic Temporal Difference Learning: Bias-Variance Analysis,Assaf Hallak;Aviv Tamar;Remi Munos;Shie Mannor,"We consider the off-policy evaluation problem in Markov decision processes with function approximation. We propose a generalization of the recently introduced emphatic temporal differences( ETD) algorithm, which encompasses the original ETD( \uc0\u955 ) , as well as several other off-policy evaluation algorithms as special cases. We call this framework ETD( \u955 , \u946 ) , where our introduced parameter \u946  controls the decay rate of an importance-sampling term. We study conditions under which the projected fixed-point equation underlying ETD( \u955 , \u946 ) involves a contraction operator, allowing us to present the first asymptotic error bounds( bias) for ETD( \u955 , \u946 ). Our results show that the original ETD algorithm always involves a contraction operator, and its bias is bounded. Moreover, by controlling \u946 , our proposed generalization allows trading-off bias for variance reduction, thereby achieving a lower total error.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10227,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10227,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generalizing Reinforcement Learning through Fusing Self-Supervised Learning into Intrinsic Motivation,Keyu Wu;Min Wu;Zhenghua Chen;Yuecong Xu;Xiaoli Li,"Despite the great potential of reinforcement learning( RL) in solving complex decision-making problems, generalization remains one of its key challenges, leading to difficulty in deploying learned RL policies to new environments. In this paper, we propose to improve the generalization of RL algorithms through fusing Self-supervised learning into Intrinsic Motivation( SIM). Specifically, SIM boosts representation learning through driving the cross-correlation matrix between the embeddings of augmented and non-augmented samples close to the identity matrix. This aims to increase the similarity between the embedding vectors of a sample and its augmented version while minimizing the redundancy between the components of these vectors. Meanwhile, the redundancy reduction based self-supervised loss is converted to an intrinsic reward to further improve generalization in RL via an auxiliary objective. As a general paradigm, SIM can be implemented on top of any RL algorithm. Extensive evaluations have been performed on a diversity of tasks. Experimental results demonstrate that SIM consistently outperforms the state-of-the-art methods and exhibits superior generalization capability and sample efficiency.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20847,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20847,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generate Your Counterfactuals: Towards Controlled Counterfactual Generation for Text,Nishtha Madaan;Inkit Padhi;Naveen Panwar;Diptikalyan Saha,"Machine Learning has seen tremendous growth recently, which has led to a larger adaptation of ML systems for educational assessments, credit risk, healthcare, employment, criminal justice, to name a few. The trustworthiness of ML and NLP systems is a crucial aspect and requires a guarantee that the decisions they make are fair and robust. Aligned with this, we propose a novel framework GYC, to generate a set of exhaustive counterfactual text, which are crucial for testing these ML systems. Our main contributions include a) We introduce GYC, a framework to generate counterfactual samples such that the generation is plausible, diverse, goal-oriented, and effective, b) We generate counterfactual samples, that can direct the generation towards a corresponding \\\\texttt\{condition\} such as named-entity tag, semantic role label, or sentiment. Our experimental results on various domains show that GYC generates counterfactual text samples exhibiting the above four properties. GYC generates counterfactuals that can act as test cases to evaluate a model and any text debiasing algorithm.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17594,10.1609/aaai.v35i15.17594,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generating Character Descriptions for Automatic Summarization of Fiction,Weiwei Zhang;Jackie Chi Kit Cheung;Joel Oren,"Summaries of fictional stories allow readers to quickly decide whether or not a story catches their interest. A major challenge in automatic summarization of fiction is the lack of standardized evaluation methodology or high-quality datasets for experimentation. In this work, we take a bottomup approach to this problem by assuming that story authors are uniquely qualified to inform such decisions. We collect a dataset of one million fiction stories with accompanying author-written summaries from Wattpad, an online story sharing platform. We identify commonly occurring summary components, of which a description of the main characters is the most frequent, and elicit descriptions of main characters directly from the authors for a sample of the stories. We propose two approaches to generate character descriptions, one based on ranking attributes found in the story text, the other based on classifying into a list of pre-defined attributes. We find that the classification-based approach performs the best in predicting character descriptions.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4738,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017476,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generating Natural Language Attacks in a Hard Label Black Box Setting,Rishabh Maheshwary;Saket Maheshwary;Vikram Pudi,"We study an important and challenging task of attacking natural language processing models in a hard label black box setting. We propose a decision-based attack strategy that crafts high quality adversarial examples on text classification and entailment tasks. Our proposed attack strategy leverages population-based optimization algorithm to craft plausible and semantically similar adversarial examples by observing only the top label predicted by the target model. At each iteration, the optimization procedure allow word replacements that maximizes the overall semantic similarity between the original and the adversarial text. Further, our approach does not rely on using substitute models or any kind of training data. We demonstrate the efficacy of our proposed approach through extensive experimentation and ablation studies on five state-of-the-art target models across seven benchmark datasets. In comparison to attacks proposed in prior literature, we are able to achieve a higher success rate with lower word perturbation percentage that too in a highly restricted setting.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17595,10.1609/aaai.v35i15.17595,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generation of Policy-Level Explanations for Reinforcement Learning,Nicholay Topin;Manuela Veloso,"Though reinforcement learning has greatly benefited from the incorporation of neural networks, the inability to verify the correctness of such systems limits their use. Current work in explainable deep learning focuses on explaining only a single decision in terms of input features, making it unsuitable for explaining a sequence of decisions. To address this need, we introduce Abstracted Policy Graphs, which are Markov chains of abstract states. This representation concisely summarizes a policy so that individual decisions can be explained in the context of expected future transitions. Additionally, we propose a method to generate these Abstracted Policy Graphs for deterministic policies given a learned value function and a set of observed transitions, potentially off-policy transitions used during training. Since no restrictions are placed on how the value function is generated, our method is compatible with many existing reinforcement learning methods. We prove that the worst-case time complexity of our method is quadratic in the number of features and linear in the number of provided transitions, O( |F|2|tr samples|). By applying our method to a family of domains, we show that our method scales well in practice and produces Abstracted Policy Graphs which reliably capture relationships within these domains.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4097,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012514,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generative Adversarial Regularized Mutual Information Policy Gradient Framework for Automatic Diagnosis,Yuan Xia;Jingbo Zhou;Zhenhui Shi;Chao Lu;Haifeng Huang,"Automatic diagnosis systems have attracted increasing attention in recent years. The reinforcement learning( RL) is an attractive technique for building an automatic diagnosis system due to its advantages for handling sequential decision making problem. However, the RL method still cannot achieve good enough prediction accuracy. In this paper, we propose a Generative Adversarial regularized Mutual information Policy gradient framework( GAMP) for automatic diagnosis which aims to make a diagnosis rapidly and accurately. We first propose a new policy gradient framework based on the Generative Adversarial Network( GAN) to optimize the RL model for automatic diagnosis. In our framework, we take the generator of GAN as a policy network, and also use the discriminator of GAN as a part of the reward function. This generative adversarial regularized policy gradient framework can try to avoid generating randomized trials of symptom inquires deviated from the common diagnosis paradigm. In addition, we add mutual information to enhance the reward function to encourage the model to select the most discriminative symptoms to make a diagnosis. Experiment evaluations on two public datasets show that our method beats the state-of-art methods, not only can achieve higher diagnosis accuracy, but also can use a smaller number of inquires to make diagnosis decision.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5456,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5456,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Generative Model for Decision Trees,Riccardo Guidotti;Anna Monreale;Mattia Setzu;Giulia Volpi,"Decision trees are among the most popular supervised models due to their interpretability and knowledge representation resembling human reasoning. Commonly-used decision tree induction algorithms are based on greedy top-down strategies. Although these approaches are known to be an efficient heuristic, the resulting trees are only locally optimal and tend to have overly complex structures. On the other hand, optimal decision tree algorithms attempt to create an entire decision tree at once to achieve global optimality. We place our proposal between these approaches by designing a generative model for decision trees. Our method first learns a latent decision tree space through a variational architecture using pre-trained decision tree models. Then, it adopts a genetic procedure to explore such latent space to find a compact decision tree with good predictive performance. We compare our proposal against classical tree induction methods, optimal approaches, and ensemble models. The results show that our proposal can generate accurate and shallow, i. e. , interpretable, decision trees.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30104,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30104,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Globally Optimal Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning for Linearly-Solvable Markov Decision Processes,Guillermo Infante;Anders Jonsson;Vicen\'e7 G\'f3mez,"We present a novel approach to hierarchical reinforcement learning for linearly-solvable Markov decision processes. Our approach assumes that the state space is partitioned, and defines subtasks for moving between the partitions. We represent value functions on several levels of abstraction, and use the compositionality of subtasks to estimate the optimal values of the states in each partition. The policy is implicitly defined on these optimal value estimates, rather than being decomposed among the subtasks. As a consequence, our approach can learn the globally optimal policy, and does not suffer from non-stationarities induced by high-level decisions. If several partitions have equivalent dynamics, the subtasks of those partitions can be shared. We show that our approach is significantly more sample efficient than that of a flat learner and similar hierarchical approaches when the set of boundary states is smaller than the entire state space.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20655,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20655,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,GLUECons: A Generic Benchmark for Learning under Constraints,Hossein Rajaby Faghihi;Aliakbar Nafar;Chen Zheng;Roshanak Mirzaee;Yue Zhang;Andrzej Uszok;Alexander Wan;Tanawan Premsri;Dan Roth;Parisa Kordjamshidi,"Recent research has shown that integrating domain knowledge into deep learning architectures is effective; It helps reduce the amount of required data, improves the accuracy of the models decisions, and improves the interpretability of models. However, the research community lacks a convened benchmark for systematically evaluating knowledge integration methods. In this work, we create a benchmark that is a collection of nine tasks in the domains of natural language processing and computer vision. In all cases, we model external knowledge as constraints, specify the sources of the constraints for each task, and implement various models that use these constraints. We report the results of these models using a new set of extended evaluation criteria in addition to the task performances for a more in-depth analysis. This effort provides a framework for a more comprehensive and systematic comparison of constraint integration techniques and for identifying related research challenges. It will facilitate further research for alleviating some problems of state-of-the-art neural models.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26143,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26143,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,GMP-AR: Granularity Message Passing and Adaptive Reconciliation for Temporal Hierarchy Forecasting,Fan Zhou;Chen Pan;Lintao Ma;Yu Liu;Siqiao Xue;James Zhang;Jun Zhou;Hongyuan Mei;Weitao Lin;Zi Zhuang;Wenxin Ning;Yunhua Hu,"Time series forecasts of different temporal granularity are widely used in real-world applications, e. g. , sales prediction in days and weeks for making different inventory plans. However, these tasks are usually solved separately without ensuring coherence, which is crucial for aligning downstream decisions. Previous works mainly focus on ensuring coherence with some straightforward methods, e. g. , aggregation from the forecasts of fine granularity to the coarse ones, and allocation from the coarse granularity to the fine ones. These methods merely take the temporal hierarchical structure to maintain coherence without improving the forecasting accuracy. In this paper, we propose a novel granularity message-passing mechanism( GMP) that leverages temporal hierarchy information to improve forecasting performance and also utilizes an adaptive reconciliation( AR) strategy to maintain coherence without performance loss. Furthermore, we introduce an optimization module to achieve task-based targets while adhering to more real-world constraints. Experiments on real-world datasets demonstrate that our framework( GMP-AR) achieves superior performances on temporal hierarchical forecasting tasks compared to state-of-the-art methods. In addition, our framework has been successfully applied to a real-world task of payment traffic management in Alipay by integrating with the task-based optimization module.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28795,10.1609/aaai.v38i8.28795,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining & Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,GOALNET: Interleaving Neural Goal Predicate Inference with Classical Planning for Generalization in Robot Instruction Following,Jigyasa Gupta;Shreya Sharma;Shreshth Tuli;Rohan Paul;Mausam,"Our goal is to enable a robot to learn how to sequence its actions to perform high-level tasks specified as natural language instructions, given successful demonstrations from a human partner. Our novel neuro-symbolic solution GOALNET builds an iterative two-step approach that interleaves( i) inferring next subgoal predicate implied by the language instruction, for a given world state, and( ii) synthesizing a feasible subgoal-reaching plan from that state. The agent executes the plan, and the two steps are repeated. GOALNET combines( i) learning, where dense representations are acquired for language instruction and the world state via a neural network prediction model, enabling generalization to novel settings and( ii) planning, where the cause-effect modeling by a classical planner eschews irrelevant predicates, facilitating multi-stage decision making in large domains. GOALNET obtains 78% improvement in the goal reaching rate in comparison to several state-of-the-art approaches on benchmark data with multi-stage instructions. Further, GOALNET can generalize to novel instructions for scenes with unseen objects. Source code available at https://github. com/reail-iitd/goalnet.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29990,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.29990,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Gradient-Variation Bound for Online Convex Optimization with Constraints,Shuang Qiu;Xiaohan Wei;Mladen Kolar,"We study online convex optimization with constraints consisting of multiple functional constraints and a relatively simple constraint set, such as a Euclidean ball. As enforcing the constraints at each time step through projections is computationally challenging in general, we allow decisions to violate the functional constraints but aim to achieve a low regret and cumulative violation of the constraints over a horizon of T time steps. First-order methods achieve an O( sqrt\{T\}) regret and an O( 1) constraint violation, which is the best-known bound under the Slaters condition, but do not take into account the structural information of the problem. Furthermore, the existing algorithms and analysis are limited to Euclidean space. In this paper, we provide an instance-dependent bound for online convex optimization with complex constraints obtained by a novel online primal-dual mirror-prox algorithm. Our instance-dependent regret is quantified by the total gradient variation V_*( T) in the sequence of loss functions. The proposed algorithm works in general normed spaces and simultaneously achieves an O( sqrt\{V_*( T) \}) regret and an O( 1) constraint violation, which is never worse than the best-known( O( sqrt\{T\}) , O( 1) ) result and improves over previous works that applied mirror-prox-type algorithms for this problem achieving O( T^\{2/3\}) regret and constraint violation. Finally, our algorithm is computationally efficient, as it only performs mirror descent steps in each iteration instead of solving a general Lagrangian minimization problem.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26141,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26141,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,GradTree: Learning Axis-Aligned Decision Trees with Gradient Descent,Sascha Marton;Stefan L\'fcdtke;Christian Bartelt;Heiner Stuckenschmidt,"Decision Trees( DTs) are commonly used for many machine learning tasks due to their high degree of interpretability. However, learning a DT from data is a difficult optimization problem, as it is non-convex and non-differentiable. Therefore, common approaches learn DTs using a greedy growth algorithm that minimizes the impurity locally at each internal node. Unfortunately, this greedy procedure can lead to inaccurate trees. In this paper, we present a novel approach for learning hard, axis-aligned DTs with gradient descent. The proposed method uses backpropagation with a straight-through operator on a dense DT representation, to jointly optimize all tree parameters. Our approach outperforms existing methods on binary classification benchmarks and achieves competitive results for multi-class tasks. The implementation is available under: https://github. com/s-marton/GradTree",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29345,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29345,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Granger-Causal Attentive Mixtures of Experts: Learning Important Features with Neural Networks,Patrick Schwab;Djordje Miladinovic;Walter Karlen,"Knowledge of the importance of input features towards decisions made by machine-learning models is essential to increase our understanding of both the models and the underlying data. Here, we present a new approach to estimating feature importance with neural networks based on the idea of distributing the features of interest among experts in an attentive mixture of experts( AME). AMEs use attentive gating networks trained with a Granger-causal objective to learn to jointly produce accurate predictions as well as estimates of feature importance in a single model. Our experiments show( i) that the feature importance estimates provided by AMEs compare favourably to those provided by state-of-theart methods, ( ii) that AMEs are significantly faster at estimating feature importance than existing methods, and( iii) that the associations discovered by AMEs are consistent with those reported by domain experts.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4412,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014846,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Graph-Based Prediction and Planning Policy Network( GP3Net) for Scalable Self-Driving in Dynamic Environments Using Deep Reinforcement Learning,Jayabrata Chowdhury;Venkataramanan Shivaraman;Suresh Sundaram;PB Sujit,"Recent advancements in motion planning for Autonomous Vehicles( AVs) show great promise in using expert driver behaviors in non-stationary driving environments. However, learning only through expert drivers needs more generalizability to recover from domain shifts and near-failure scenarios due to the dynamic behavior of traffic participants and weather conditions. A deep Graph-based Prediction and Planning Policy Network( GP3Net) framework is proposed for non-stationary environments that encodes the interactions between traffic participants with contextual information and provides a decision for safe maneuver for AV. A spatio-temporal graph models the interactions between traffic participants for predicting the future trajectories of those participants. The predicted trajectories are utilized to generate a future occupancy map around the AV with uncertainties embedded to anticipate the evolving non-stationary driving environments. Then the contextual information and future occupancy maps are input to the policy network of the GP3Net framework and trained using Proximal Policy Optimization( PPO) algorithm. The proposed GP3Net performance is evaluated on standard CARLA benchmarking scenarios with domain shifts of traffic patterns( urban, highway, and mixed). The results show that the GP3Net outperforms previous state-of-the-art imitation learning-based planning models for different towns. Further, in unseen new weather conditions, GP3Net completes the desired route with fewer traffic infractions. Finally, the results emphasize the advantage of including the prediction module to enhance safety measures in non-stationary environments.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29043,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.29043,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Graphical Hedonic Games of Bounded Treewidth,Dominik Peters,"Hedonic games are a well-studied model of coalition formation, in which selfish agents are partitioned into disjoint sets and agents care about the make-up of the coalition they end up in. The computational problems of finding stable, optimal, or fair outcomes tend to be computationally intractable in even severely restricted instances of hedonic games. We introduce the notion of a graphical hedonic game and show that, in contrast, on classes of graphical hedonic games whose underlying graphs are of bounded treewidth and degree, such problems become easy. In particular, problems that can be specified through quantification over agents, coalitions, and( connected) partitions can be decided in linear time. The proof is by reduction to monadic second order logic. We also provide faster algorithms in special cases, and show that the extra condition of the degree bound cannot be dropped. Finally, we note that the problem of allocating indivisible goods can be modelled as a hedonic game, so that our results imply tractability of finding fair and efficient allocations on appropriately restricted instances.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10046,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10046,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Group Decision Diagram( GDD) : A Compact Representation for Permutations,Takanori Maehara;Yuma Inoue,"Permutation is a fundamental combinatorial object appeared in various areas in mathematics, computer science, and artificial intelligence. In some applications, a subset of a permutation group must be maintained efficiently. In this study, we develop a new data structure, called group decision diagram( GDD) , to maintain a set of permutations. This data structure combines the zero-suppressed binary decision diagram with the computable subgroup chain of the permutation group. The data structure enables efficient operations, such as membership testing, set operations( e. g. , union, intersection, and difference) , and Cartesian product. Our experiments demonstrate that the data structure is efficient( i. e. , 20\'96300 times faster) than the existing methods when the permutation group is considerably smaller than the symmetric group, or only subsets constructed by a few operations over generators are maintained.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4155,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012986,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Group Fairness by Probabilistic Modeling with Latent Fair Decisions,YooJung Choi;Meihua Dang;Guy Van den Broeck,"Machine learning systems are increasingly being used to make impactful decisions such as loan applications and criminal justice risk assessments, and as such, ensuring fairness of these systems is critical. This is often challenging as the labels in the data are biased. This paper studies learning fair probability distributions from biased data by explicitly modeling a latent variable that represents a hidden, unbiased label. In particular, we aim to achieve demographic parity by enforcing certain independencies in the learned model. We also show that group fairness guarantees are meaningful only if the distribution used to provide those guarantees indeed captures the real-world data. In order to closely model the data distribution, we employ probabilistic circuits, an expressive and tractable probabilistic model, and propose an algorithm to learn them from incomplete data. We show on real-world datasets that our approach not only is a better model of how the data was generated than existing methods but also achieves competitive accuracy. Moreover, we also evaluate our approach on a synthetic dataset in which observed labels indeed come from fair labels but with added bias, and demonstrate that the fair labels are successfully retrieved.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17431,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17431,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Guiding CDCL SAT Search via Random Exploration amid Conflict Depression,Md Solimul Chowdhury;Martin M\uc0\u129 \'fcller;Jia You,"The efficiency of Conflict Driven Clause Learning( CDCL) SAT solving depends crucially on finding conflicts at a fast rate. State-of-the-art CDCL branching heuristics such as VSIDS, CHB and LRB conform to this goal. We take a closer look at the way in which conflicts are generated over the course of a CDCL SAT search. Our study of the VSIDS branching heuristic shows that conflicts are typically generated in short bursts, followed by what we call a conflict depression phase in which the search fails to generate any conflicts in a span of decisions. The lack of conflict indicates that the variables that are currently ranked highest by the branching heuristic fail to generate conflicts. Based on this analysis, we propose an exploration strategy, called expSAT, which randomly samples variable selection sequences in order to learn an updated heuristic from the generated conflicts. The goal is to escape from conflict depressions expeditiously. The branching heuristic deployed in expSAT combines these updates with the standard VSIDS activity scores. An extensive empirical evaluation with four state-of-the-art CDCL SAT solvers demonstrates good-to-strong performance gains with the expSAT approach.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5500,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5500,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Guiding Students to Investigate What Google Speech Recognition Knows about Language,David S. Touretzky;Christina Gardner-McCune,"Today, children of all ages interact with speech recognition systems but are largely unaware of how they work. Teaching K-12 students to investigate how these systems employ phonological, syntactic, semantic, and cultural knowledge to resolve ambiguities in the audio signal can provide them a window on complex AI decision-making and also help them appreciate the richness and complexity of human language. We describe a browser-based tool for exploring the Google Web Speech API and a series of experiments students can engage in to measure what the service knows about language and the types of biases it exhibits. Middle school students taking an introductory AI elective were able to use the tool to explore Google\'92s knowledge of homophones and its ability to exploit context to disambiguate them. Older students could potentially conduct more comprehensive investigations, which we lay out here. This approach to investigating the power and limitations of speech technology through carefully designed experiments can also be applied to other AI application areas, such as face detection, object recognition, machine translation, or question answering.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26905,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26905,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Resources for Teaching AI in K-12,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Handling Long and Richly Constrained Tasks through Constrained Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning,Yuxiao Lu;Arunesh Sinha;Pradeep Varakantham,"Safety in goal directed Reinforcement Learning( RL) settings has typically been handled through constraints over trajectories and have demonstrated good performance in primarily short horizon tasks. In this paper, we are specifically interested in the problem of solving temporally extended decision making problems such as robots cleaning different areas in a house while avoiding slippery and unsafe areas( e. g. , stairs) and retaining enough charge to move to a charging dock; in the presence of complex safety constraints. Our key contribution is a( safety) Constrained Search with Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning( CoSHRL) mechanism that combines an upper level constrained search agent( which computes a reward maximizing policy from a given start to a far away goal state while satisfying cost constraints) with a low-level goal conditioned RL agent( which estimates cost and reward values to move between nearby states). A major advantage of CoSHRL is that it can handle constraints on the cost value distribution( e. g. , on Conditional Value at Risk, CVaR) and can adjust to flexible constraint thresholds without retraining. We perform extensive experiments with different types of safety constraints to demonstrate the utility of our approach over leading approaches in constrained and hierarchical RL.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30132,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30132,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hard Examples for Common Variable Decision Heuristics,Marc Vinyals,"The CDCL algorithm for SAT is equivalent to the resolution proof system under a few assumptions, one of them being an optimal non-deterministic procedure for choosing the next variable to branch on. In practice this task is left to a variable decision heuristic, and since the so-called VSIDS decision heuristic is considered an integral part of CDCL, whether CDCL with a VSIDS-like heuristic is also equivalent to resolution remained a significant open question. We give a negative answer by building a family of formulas that have resolution proofs of polynomial size but require exponential time to decide in CDCL with common heuristics such as VMTF, CHB, and certain implementations of VSIDS and LRB.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5527,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5527,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,HateXplain: A Benchmark Dataset for Explainable Hate Speech Detection,Binny Mathew;Punyajoy Saha;Seid Muhie Yimam;Chris Biemann;Pawan Goyal;Animesh Mukherjee,"Hate speech is a challenging issue plaguing the online social media. While better models for hate speech detection are continuously being developed, there is little research on the bias and interpretability aspects of hate speech. In this paper, we introduce HateXplain, the first benchmark hate speech dataset covering multiple aspects of the issue. Each post in our dataset is annotated from three different perspectives: the basic, commonly used 3-class classification( i. e. , hate, offensive or normal) , the target community( i. e. , the community that has been the victim of hate speech/offensive speech in the post) , and the rationales, i. e. , the portions of the post on which their labelling decision( as hate, offensive or normal) is based. We utilize existing state-of-the-art models and observe that even models that perform very well in classification do not score high on explainability metrics like model plausibility and faithfulness. We also observe that models, which utilize the human rationales for training, perform better in reducing unintended bias towards target communities. We have made our code and dataset public for other researchers.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17745,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17745,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,HAVEN: Hierarchical Cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning with Dual Coordination Mechanism,Zhiwei Xu;Yunpeng Bai;Bin Zhang;Dapeng Li;Guoliang Fan,"Recently, some challenging tasks in multi-agent systems have been solved by some hierarchical reinforcement learning methods. Inspired by the intra-level and inter-level coordination in the human nervous system, we propose a novel value decomposition framework HAVEN based on hierarchical reinforcement learning for fully cooperative multi-agent problems. To address the instability arising from the concurrent optimization of policies between various levels and agents, we introduce the dual coordination mechanism of inter-level and inter-agent strategies by designing reward functions in a two-level hierarchy. HAVEN does not require domain knowledge and pre-training, and can be applied to any value decomposition variant. Our method achieves desirable results on different decentralized partially observable Markov decision process domains and outperforms other popular multi-agent hierarchical reinforcement learning algorithms.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26386,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26386,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Healthy Cognitive Aging: A Hybrid Random Vector Functional-Link Model for the Analysis of Alzheimer\'92s Disease,Peng Dai;Femida Gwadry-Sridhar;Michael Bauer;Michael Borrie;Xue Teng,"Alzheimers disease( AD) is a genetically complex neurodegenerative disease, which leads to irreversible brain damage, severe cognitive problems and ultimately death. A number of clinical trials and study initiatives have been set up to investigate AD pathology, leading to large amounts of high dimensional heterogeneous data( biomarkers) for analysis. This paper focuses on combining clinical features from different modalities, including medical imaging, cerebrospinal fluid( CSF) , etc. , to diagnose AD and predict potential progression. Due to privacy and legal issues involved with clinical research, the study cohort( number of patients) is relatively small, compared to thousands of available biomarkers( predictors). We propose a hybrid pathological analysis model, which integrates manifold learning and Random Vector functional-link network( RVFL) so as to achieve better ability to extract discriminant information with limited training materials. Furthermore, we model( current and future) cognitive healthiness as a regression problem about age. By comparing the difference between predicted age and actual age, we manage to show statistical differences between different pathological stages. Verification tests are conducted based on the Alzheimer\'92s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative( ADNI) database. Extensive comparison is made against different machine learning algorithms, i. e. Support Vector Machine( SVM) , Random Forest( RF) , Decision Tree and Multilayer Perceptron( MLP). Experimental results show that our proposed algorithm achieves better results than the comparison targets, which indicates promising robustness for practical clinical implementation.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11181,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11181,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track on Integrated Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Heisenbot: A Rule-Based Game Agent for Gin Rummy,Matthew Eicholtz;Savanna Moss;Matthew Traino;Christian Roberson,"Games are an excellent tool for undergraduate research in artificial intelligence because they typically have clear objectives, a limited action space, and well-defined constraints. Nonetheless, games involving chance and imperfect information offer unique challenges for optimizing gameplay. In this paper, we analyze one such card game, gin rummy, and propose an artificial intelligence player based on empirically driven strategies. Our approach separates gameplay into three disjoint policies for drawing, discarding, and knocking. On each turn, decisions are influenced by offensive considerations as well as defensive moves. Tournament-style simulations enable us to determine statistically which combination of policies achieves the highest win rate. Our resulting player, dubbed Heisenbot, is competitive against strong baseline strategies.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17823,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17823,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Heterogeneous Graph Learning for Multi-Modal Medical Data Analysis,Sein Kim;Namkyeong Lee;Junseok Lee;Dongmin Hyun;Chanyoung Park,"Routine clinical visits of a patient produce not only image data, but also non-image data containing clinical information regarding the patient, i. e. , medical data is multi-modal in nature. Such heterogeneous modalities offer different and complementary perspectives on the same patient, resulting in more accurate clinical decisions when they are properly combined. However, despite its significance, how to effectively fuse the multi-modal medical data into a unified framework has received relatively little attention. In this paper, we propose an effective graph-based framework called HetMed( Heterogeneous Graph Learning for Multi-modal Medical Data Analysis) for fusing the multi-modal medical data. Specifically, we construct a multiplex network that incorporates multiple types of non-image features of patients to capture the complex relationship between patients in a systematic way, which leads to more accurate clinical decisions. Extensive experiments on various real-world datasets demonstrate the superiority and practicality of HetMed. The source code for HetMed is available at https://github. com/Sein-Kim/Multimodal-Medical.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25643,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25643,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Heuristic Search in Dual Space for Constrained Fixed-Horizon POMDPs with Durative Actions,Majid Khonji;Duoaa Khalifa,"The Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( POMDP) is widely used in probabilistic planning for stochastic domains. However, current extensions, such as constrained and chance-constrained POMDPs, have limitations in modeling real-world planning problems because they assume that all actions have a fixed duration. To address this issue, we propose a unified model that encompasses durative POMDP and its constrained extensions. To solve the durative POMDP and its constrained extensions, we first convert them into an Integer Linear Programming( ILP) formulation. This approach leverages existing solvers in the ILP literature and provides a foundation for solving these problems. We then introduce a heuristic search approach that prunes the search space, which is guided by solving successive partial ILP programs. Our empirical evaluation results show that our approach outperforms the current state-of-the-art fixed-horizon chance-constrained POMDP solver.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26743,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26743,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Heuristic Voting as Ordinal Dominance Strategies,Omer Lev;Reshef Meir;Svetlana Obraztsova;Maria Polukarov,"Decision making under uncertainty is a key component of many AI settings, and in particular of voting scenarios where strategic agents are trying to reach a joint decision. The common approach to handle uncertainty is by maximizing expected utility, which requires a cardinal utility function as well as detailed probabilistic information. However, often such probabilities are not easy to estimate or apply. To this end, we present a framework that allows for \'93shades of gray\'94 of likelihood without probabilities. Specifically, we create a hierarchy of sets of world states based on a prospective poll, with inner sets contain more likely outcomes. This hierarchy of likelihoods allows us to define what we term ordinally-dominated strategies. We use this approach to justify various known voting heuristics as bounded-rational strategies.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4038,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012077,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hierarchical Macro Strategy Model for MOBA Game AI,Bin Wu,"The next challenge of game AI lies in Real Time Strategy( RTS) games. RTS games provide partially observable gaming environments, where agents interact with one another in an action space much larger than that of GO. Mastering RTS games requires both strong macro strategies and delicate micro level execution. Recently, great progress has been made in micro level execution, while complete solutions for macro strategies are still lacking. In this paper, we propose a novel learning-based Hierarchical Macro Strategy model for mastering MOBA games, a sub-genre of RTS games. Trained by the Hierarchical Macro Strategy model, agents explicitly make macro strategy decisions and further guide their micro level execution. Moreover, each of the agents makes independent strategy decisions, while simultaneously communicating with the allies through leveraging a novel imitated crossagent communication mechanism. We perform comprehensive evaluations on a popular 5v5 Multiplayer Online Battle Arena( MOBA) game. Our 5-AI team achieves a 48% winning rate against human player teams which are ranked top 1% in the player ranking system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3915,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011206,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hierarchize Pareto Dominance in Multi-Objective Stochastic Linear Bandits,Ji Cheng;Bo Xue;Jiaxiang Yi;Qingfu Zhang,"Multi-objective Stochastic Linear bandit( MOSLB) plays a critical role in the sequential decision-making paradigm, however, most existing methods focus on the Pareto dominance among different objectives without considering any priority. In this paper, we study bandit algorithms under mixed Pareto-lexicographic orders, which can reflect decision makers preferences. We adopt the Grossone approach to deal with these orders and develop the notion of Pareto-lexicographic optimality to evaluate the learners performance. Our work represents a first attempt to address these important and realistic orders in bandit algorithms. To design algorithms under these orders, the upper confidence bound( UCB) policy and the prior free lexicographical filter are adapted to approximate the optimal arms at each round. Moreover, the framework of the algorithms involves two stages in pursuit of the balance between exploration and exploitation. Theoretical analysis as well as numerical experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithms.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29030,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.29030,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,High-Confidence Off-Policy( or Counterfactual) Variance Estimation,Yash Chandak;Shiv Shankar;Philip S. Thomas,"Many sequential decision-making systems leverage data collected using prior policies to propose a new policy. For critical applications, it is important that high-confidence guarantees on the new policy\'92s behavior are provided before deployment, to ensure that the policy will behave as desired. Prior works have studied high-confidence off-policy estimation of the expected return, however, high-confidence off-policy estimation of the variance of returns can be equally critical for high-risk applications. In this paper we tackle the previously open problem of estimating and bounding, with high confidence, the variance of returns from off-policy data.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16855,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16855,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hindsight and Sequential Rationality of Correlated Play,Dustin Morrill;Ryan D'Orazio;Reca Sarfati;Marc Lanctot;James R Wright;Amy R Greenwald;Michael Bowling,"Driven by recent successes in two-player, zero-sum game solving and playing, artificial intelligence work on games has increasingly focused on algorithms that produce equilibrium-based strategies. However, this approach has been less effective at producing competent players in general-sum games or those with more than two players than in two-player, zero-sum games. An appealing alternative is to consider adaptive algorithms that ensure strong performance in hindsight relative to what could have been achieved with modified behavior. This approach also leads to a game-theoretic analysis, but in the correlated play that arises from joint learning dynamics rather than factored agent behavior at equilibrium. We develop and advocate for this hindsight rationality framing of learning in general sequential decision-making settings. To this end, we re-examine mediated equilibrium and deviation types in extensive-form games, thereby gaining a more complete understanding and resolving past misconceptions. We present a set of examples illustrating the distinct strengths and weaknesses of each type of equilibrium in the literature, and prove that no tractable concept subsumes all others. This line of inquiry culminates in the definition of the deviation and equilibrium classes that correspond to algorithms in the counterfactual regret minimization( CFR) family, relating them to all others in the literature. Examining CFR in greater detail further leads to a new recursive definition of rationality in correlated play that extends sequential rationality in a way that naturally applies to hindsight evaluation.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16702,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16702,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hindsight Optimization for Hybrid State and Action MDPs,Aswin Raghavan;Scott Sanner;Roni Khardon;Prasad Tadepalli;Alan Fern,"Hybrid( mixed discrete and continuous) state and action Markov Decision Processes( HSA-MDPs) provide an expressive formalism for modeling stochastic and concurrent sequential decision-making problems. Existing solvers for HSA-MDPs are either limited to very restricted transition distributions, require knowledge of domain-specific basis functions to achieve good approximations, or do not scale. We explore a domain-independent approach based on the framework of hindsight optimization( HOP) for HSA-MDPs, which uses an upper bound on the finite-horizon action values for action selection. Our main contribution is a linear time reduction to a Mixed Integer Linear Program( MILP) that encodes the HOP objective, when the dynamics are specified as location-scale probability distributions parametrized by Piecewise Linear( PWL) functions of states and actions. In addition, we show how to use the same machinery to select actions based on a lower-bound generated by straight line plans. Our empirical results show that the HSA-HOP approach effectively scales to high-dimensional problems and outperforms baselines that are capable of scaling to such large hybrid MDPs.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11056,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11056,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,HogRider: Champion Agent of Microsoft Malmo Collaborative AI Challenge,Yanhai Xiong;Haipeng Chen;Mengchen Zhao;Bo An,"It has been an open challenge for self-interested agents to make optimal sequential decisions in complex multiagent systems, where agents might achieve higher utility via collaboration. The Microsoft Malmo Collaborative AI Challenge( MCAC) , which is designed to encourage research relating to various problems in Collaborative AI, takes the form of a Minecraft mini-game where players might work together to catch a pig or deviate from cooperation, for pursuing high scores to win the challenge. Various characteristics, such as complex interactions among agents, uncertainties, sequential decision making and limited learning trials all make it extremely challenging to find effective strategies. We present HogRider---the champion agent of MCAC in 2017 out of 81 teams from 26 countries. One key innovation of HogRider is a generalized agent type hypothesis framework to identify the behavior model of the other agents, which is demonstrated to be robust to observation uncertainty. On top of that, a second key innovation is a novel Q-learning approach to learn effective policies against each type of the collaborating agents. Various ideas are proposed to adapt traditional Q-learning to handle complexities in the challenge, including state-action abstraction to reduce problem scale, a warm start approach using human reasoning for addressing limited learning trials, and an active greedy strategy to balance exploitation-exploration. Challenge results show that HogRider outperforms all the other teams by a significant edge, in terms of both optimality and stability.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11581,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11581,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,HONGAT: Graph Attention Networks in the Presence of High-Order Neighbors,Heng-Kai Zhang;Yi-Ge Zhang;Zhi Zhou;Yu-Feng Li,"Graph Attention Networks( GATs) that compute node representation by its lower-order neighbors, are state-of-the-art architecture for representation learning with graphs. In practice, however, the high-order neighbors that turn out to be useful, remain largely unemployed in GATs. Efforts on this issue remain to be limited. This paper proposes a simple and effective high-order neighbor GAT( HONGAT) model to both effectively exploit informative high-order neighbors and address over-smoothing at the decision boundary of nodes. Two tightly coupled novel technologies, namely common neighbor similarity and new masking matrix, are introduced. Specifically, high-order neighbors are fully explored by generic high-order common-neighbor-based similarity; in order to prevent severe over-smoothing, typical averaging range no longer works well and a new masking mechanism is employed without any extra hyperparameter. Extensive empirical evaluation on real-world datasets clearly shows the necessity of the new algorithm in the ability of exploring high-order neighbors, which promisingly achieves significant gains over previous state-of-the-art graph attention methods.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29615,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29615,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hospital Stockpiling Problems with Inventory Sharing,Eric Lofgren;Anil Vullikanti,"Hospitals are typically optimized to operate near capacity, and there are serious concerns that our healthcare system is not prepared for the next pandemic. Stockpiles of different supplies, e. g. , personal protective equipments( PPE) and medical equipment, need to be maintained in order to be able to respond to any future pandemics. Large outbreaks occur with a low probability, and such stockpiles require big investments. Further, hospitals often have mutual sharing agreements, which makes the problem of stockpiling decisions a natural game-theoretical problem. In this paper, we formalize hospital stockpiling as a game-theoretical problem. We use the notion of pairwise Nash stability as a solution concept for this problem, and characterize its structure. We show that stable strategies can lead to high unsatisfied demands in some scenarios, and stockpiles might not be maintained at all nodes. We also show that stable strategies and the social optimum can be computed efficiently.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10008,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10008,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,How Do We Move: Modeling Human Movement with System Dynamics,Hua Wei;Dongkuan Xu;Junjie Liang;Zhenhui (Jessie) Li,"Modeling how human moves in the space is useful for policy-making in transportation, public safety, and public health. The human movements can be viewed as a dynamic process that human transits between states( e. g. , locations) over time. In the human world where intelligent agents like humans or vehicles with human drivers play an important role, the states of agents mostly describe human activities, and the state transition is influenced by both the human decisions and physical constraints from the real-world system( e. g. , agents need to spend time to move over a certain distance). Therefore, the modeling of state transition should include the modeling of the agents decision process and the physical system dynamics. In this paper, we propose MoveSD to model state transition in human movement from a novel perspective, by learning the decision model and integrating the system dynamics. MoveSD learns the human movement with Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning and integrates the stochastic constraints from system dynamics in the learning process. To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to learn to model the state transition of moving agents with system dynamics. In extensive experiments on real-world datasets, we demonstrate that the proposed method can generate trajectories similar to real-world ones, and outperform the state-of-the-art methods in predicting the next location and generating long-term future trajectories.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16571,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16571,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,How Many Representatives Do We Need? The Optimal Size of a Congress Voting on Binary Issues,Manon Revel;Tao Lin;Daniel Halpern,"Aggregating opinions of a collection of agents is a question of interest to a broad array of researchers, ranging from ensemble-learning theorists to political scientists designing democratic institutions. This work investigates the optimal number of agents needed to decide on a binary issue under majority rule. We take an epistemic view where the issue at hand has a ground truth ``correct outcome and each one of n voters votes correctly with a fixed probability, known as their competence level or competence. These competencies come from a fixed distribution D. Observing the competencies, we must choose a specific group that will represent the population. Finally, voters sample a decision( either correct or not) , and the group is correct as long as more than half the chosen representatives voted correctly. Assuming that we can identify the best experts, i. e. , those with the highest competence, to form an epistemic congress we find that the optimal congress size should be linear in the population size. This result is striking because it holds even when allowing the top representatives to become arbitrarily accurate, choosing the correct outcome with probabilities approaching 1. We then analyze real-world data, observing that the actual sizes of representative bodies are much smaller than the optimal ones our theoretical results suggest. We conclude by examining under what conditions congresses of sub-optimal sizes would still outperform direct democracy, in which all voters vote. We find that a small congress would beat direct democracy if the rate at which the societal bias towards the ground truth decreases with the population size fast enough, and we quantify the speed needed for constant and polynomial congress sizes.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21175,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21175,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,How RL Agents Behave When Their Actions Are Modified,Eric D. Langlois;Tom Everitt,"Reinforcement learning in complex environments may require supervision to prevent the agent from attempting dangerous actions. As a result of supervisor intervention, the executed action may differ from the action specified by the policy. How does this affect learning? We present the Modified-Action Markov Decision Process, an extension of the MDP model that allows actions to differ from the policy. We analyze the asymptotic behaviours of common reinforcement learning algorithms in this setting and show that they adapt in different ways: some completely ignore modifications while others go to various lengths in trying to avoid action modifications that decrease reward. By choosing the right algorithm, developers can prevent their agents from learning to circumvent interruptions or constraints, and better control agent responses to other kinds of action modification, like self-damage.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17378,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17378,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,How to Find a Good Explanation for Clustering?,Sayan Bandyapadhyay;Fedor Fomin;Petr A Golovach;William Lochet;Nidhi Purohit;Kirill Simonov,"k-means and k-median clustering are powerful unsupervised machine learning techniques. However, due to complicated dependences on all the features, it is challenging to interpret the resulting cluster assignments. Moshkovitz, Dasgupta, Rashtchian, and Frost proposed an elegant model of explainable k-means and k-median clustering in ICML 2020. In this model, a decision tree with k leaves provides a straightforward characterization of the data set into clusters. We study two natural algorithmic questions about explainable clustering. ( 1) For a given clustering, how to find the ``best explanation by using a decision tree with k leaves?( 2) For a given set of points, how to find a decision tree with k leaves minimizing the k-means/median objective of the resulting explainable clustering? To address the first question, we introduce a new model of explainable clustering. Our model, inspired by the notion of outliers in robust statistics, is the following. We are seeking a small number of points( outliers) whose removal makes the existing clustering well-explainable. For addressing the second question, we initiate the study of the model of Moshkovitz et al. from the perspective of multivariate complexity. Our rigorous algorithmic analysis sheds some light on the influence of parameters like the input size, dimension of the data, the number of outliers, the number of clusters, and the approximation ratio, on the computational complexity of explainable clustering.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20306,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20306,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,How to Make Knockout Tournaments More Popular?,Juhi Chaudhary;Hendrik Molter;Meirav Zehavi,"Given a mapping from a set of players to the leaves of a complete binary tree( called a seeding) , a knockout tournament is conducted as follows: every round, every two players with a common parent compete against each other, and the winner is promoted to the common parent; then, the leaves are deleted. When only one player remains, it is declared the winner. This is a popular competition format in sports, elections, and decision-making. Over the past decade, it has been studied intensively from both theoretical and practical points of view. Most frequently, the objective is to seed the tournament in a way that ``assists( or even guarantees) some particular player to win the competition. We introduce a new objective, which is very sensible from the perspective of the directors of the competition: maximize the profit or popularity of the tournament. Specifically, we associate a ``score with every possible match, and aim to seed the tournament to maximize the sum of the scores of the matches that take place. We focus on the case where we assume a total order on the players strengths, and provide a wide spectrum of results on the computational complexity of the problem.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28814,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28814,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Human Assisted Learning by Evolutionary Multi-Objective Optimization,Dan-Xuan Liu;Xin Mu;Chao Qian,"Machine learning models have liberated manpower greatly in many real-world tasks, but their predictions are still worse than humans on some specific instances. To improve the performance, it is natural to optimize machine learning models to take decisions for most instances while delivering a few tricky instances to humans, resulting in the problem of Human Assisted Learning( HAL). Previous works mainly formulated HAL as a constrained optimization problem that tries to find a limited subset of instances for human decision such that the sum of model and human errors can be minimized; and employed the greedy algorithms, whose performance, however, may be limited due to the greedy nature. In this paper, we propose a new framework HAL-EMO based on Evolutionary Multi-objective Optimization, which reformulates HAL as a bi-objective optimization problem that minimizes the number of selected instances for human decision and the total errors simultaneously, and employs a Multi-Objective Evolutionary Algorithm( MOEA) to solve it. We implement HAL-EMO using two MOEAs, the popular NSGA-II as well as the theoretically grounded GSEMO. We also propose a specific MOEA, called BSEMO, with biased selection and balanced mutation for HAL-EMO, and prove that for human assisted regression and classification, HAL-EMO using BSEMO can achieve better and same theoretical guarantees than previous greedy algorithms, respectively. Experiments on the tasks of medical diagnosis and content moderation show the superiority of HAL-EMO( with either NSGA-II, GSEMO or BSEMO) over previous algorithms, and that using BSEMO leads to the best performance of HAL-EMO.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26467,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26467,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Human Uncertainty Inference via Deterministic Ensemble Neural Networks,Yujin Cha;Sang Wan Lee,"The estimation and inference of human predictive uncertainty have great potential to improve the sampling efficiency and prediction reliability of human-in-the-loop systems for smart healthcare, smart education, and human-computer interactions. Predictive uncertainty in humans is highly interpretable, but its measurement is poorly accessible. Contrarily, the predictive uncertainty of machine learning models, albeit with poor interpretability, is relatively easily accessible. Here, we demonstrate that the poor accessibility of human uncertainty can be resolved by exploiting simple and universally accessible deterministic neural networks. We propose a new model for human uncertainty inference, called proxy ensemble network( PEN). Simulations with a few benchmark datasets demonstrated that the model can efficiently learn human uncertainty from a small amount of data. To show its applicability in real-world problems, we performed behavioral experiments, in which 64 physicians classified medical images and reported their level of confidence. We showed that the PEN could predict both the uncertainty range and diagnoses given by subjects with high accuracy. Our results demonstrate the ability of machine learning in guiding human decision making; it can also help humans in learning more efficiently and accurately. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study that explored the possibility of accessing human uncertainty via the lens of deterministic neural networks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16735,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16735,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Human-Guided Moral Decision Making in Text-Based Games,Zijing Shi;Meng Fang;Ling Chen;Yali Du;Jun Wang,"Training reinforcement learning( RL) agents to achieve desired goals while also acting morally is a challenging problem. Transformer-based language models( LMs) have shown some promise in moral awareness, but their use in different contexts is problematic because of the complexity and implicitness of human morality. In this paper, we build on text-based games, which are challenging environments for current RL agents, and propose the HuMAL( Human-guided Morality Awareness Learning) algorithm, which adaptively learns personal values through human-agent collaboration with minimal manual feedback. We evaluate HuMAL on the Jiminy Cricket benchmark, a set of text-based games with various scenes and dense morality annotations, using both simulated and actual human feedback. The experimental results demonstrate that with a small amount of human feedback, HuMAL can improve task performance and reduce immoral behavior in a variety of games and is adaptable to different personal values.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30155,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30155,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Human-in-the-Loop Feature Selection,Alvaro H. C. Correia;Freddy Lecue,"Feature selection is a crucial step in the conception of Machine Learning models, which is often performed via datadriven approaches that overlook the possibility of tapping into the human decision-making of the model\'92s designers and users. We present a human-in-the-loop framework that interacts with domain experts by collecting their feedback regarding the variables( of few samples) they evaluate as the most relevant for the task at hand. Such information can be modeled via Reinforcement Learning to derive a per-example feature selection method that tries to minimize the model\'92s loss function by focusing on the most pertinent variables from a human perspective. We report results on a proof-of-concept image classification dataset and on a real-world risk classification task in which the model successfully incorporated feedback from experts to improve its accuracy.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4088,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012438,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,HyperPlay: A Solution to General Game Playing with Imperfect Information,Michael Schofield;Timothy Cerexhe;Michael Thielscher,"General Game Playing is the design of AI systems able to understand the rules of new games and to use such descriptions to play those games effectively. Games with imperfectinformation have recently been added as a new challenge forexisting general game-playing systems. The HyperPlay technique presents a solution to this challenge by maintaining a collection of models of the true game as a foundation for reasoning, and move selection. The technique provides existing game players with a bolt-on solution to convert from perfect-information games to imperfect-information games. In this paper we describe the HyperPlay technique, show how it was adapted for use with a Monte Carlo decision making process and give experimental results for its performance.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8335,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8335,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multidisciplinary Topics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Hypothetical Answers to Continuous Queries over Data Streams,Lu\'eds Cruz-Filipe;Isabel Nunes;Gra\'e7a Gaspar,"Continuous queries over data streams often delay answers until some relevant input arrives through the data stream. These delays may turn answers, when they arrive, obsolete to users who sometimes have to make decisions with no help whatsoever. Therefore, it can be useful to provide hypothetical answers \'96 \'93given the current information, it is possible that X will become true at time t\'94 \'96 instead of no information at all. In this paper we present a semantics for queries and corresponding answers that covers such hypothetical answers, together with an online algorithm for updating the set of facts that are consistent with the currently available information.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5668,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5668,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,I Prefer Not to Say: Protecting User Consent in Models with Optional Personal Data,Tobias Leemann;Martin Pawelczyk;Christian Thomas Eberle;Gjergji Kasneci,"We examine machine learning models in a setup where individuals have the choice to share optional personal information with a decision-making system, as seen in modern insurance pricing models. Some users consent to their data being used whereas others object and keep their data undisclosed. In this work, we show that the decision not to share data can be considered as information in itself that should be protected to respect users privacy. This observation raises the overlooked problem of how to ensure that users who protect their personal data do not suffer any disadvantages as a result. To address this problem, we formalize protection requirements for models which only use the information for which active user consent was obtained. This excludes implicit information contained in the decision to share data or not. We offer the first solution to this problem by proposing the notion of Protected User Consent( PUC) , which we prove to be loss-optimal under our protection requirement. We observe that privacy and performance are not fundamentally at odds with each other and that it is possible for a decision maker to benefit from additional data while respecting users consent. To learn PUC-compliant models, we devise a model-agnostic data augmentation strategy with finite sample convergence guarantees. Finally, we analyze the implications of PUC on challenging real datasets, tasks, and models.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30126,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30126,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,i-Algebra: Towards Interactive Interpretability of Deep Neural Networks,Xinyang Zhang;Ren Pang;Shouling Ji;Fenglong Ma;Ting Wang,"Providing explanations for deep neural networks( DNNs) is essential for their use in domains wherein the interpretability of decisions is a critical prerequisite. Despite the plethora of work on interpreting DNNs, most existing solutions offer interpretability in an ad hoc, one-shot, and static manner, without accounting for the perception, understanding, or response of end-users, resulting in their poor usability in practice. In this paper, we argue that DNN interpretability should be implemented as the interactions between users and models. We present i-Algebra, a first-of-its-kind interactive framework for interpreting DNNs. At its core is a library of atomic, composable operators, which explain model behaviors at varying input granularity, during different inference stages, and from distinct interpretation perspectives. Leveraging a declarative query language, users are enabled to build various analysis tools( e. g. , ``drill-down, ``comparative, ``what-if analysis) via flexibly composing such operators. We prototype i-Algebra and conduct user studies in a set of representative analysis tasks, including inspecting adversarial inputs, resolving model inconsistency, and cleansing contaminated data, all demonstrating its promising usability.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17390,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17390,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,I-CEE: Tailoring Explanations of Image Classification Models to User Expertise,Yao Rong;Peizhu Qian;Vaibhav Unhelkar;Enkelejda Kasneci,"Effectively explaining decisions of black-box machine learning models is critical to responsible deployment of AI systems that rely on them. Recognizing their importance, the field of explainable AI( XAI) provides several techniques to generate these explanations. Yet, there is relatively little emphasis on the user( the explainee) in this growing body of work and most XAI techniques generate one-size-fits-all explanations. To bridge this gap and achieve a step closer towards human-centered XAI, we present I-CEE, a framework that provides Image Classification Explanations tailored to User Expertise. Informed by existing work, I-CEE explains the decisions of image classification models by providing the user with an informative subset of training data( i. e. , example images) , corresponding local explanations, and model decisions. However, unlike prior work, I-CEE models the informativeness of the example images to depend on user expertise, resulting in different examples for different users. We posit that by tailoring the example set to user expertise, I-CEE can better facilitate users understanding and simulatability of the model. To evaluate our approach, we conduct detailed experiments in both simulation and with human participants( N = 100) on multiple datasets. Experiments with simulated users show that I-CEE improves users ability to accurately predict the models decisions( simulatability) compared to baselines, providing promising preliminary results. Experiments with human participants demonstrate that our method significantly improves user simulatability accuracy, highlighting the importance of human-centered XAI.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30152,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30152,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,i-Rebalance: Personalized Vehicle Repositioning for Supply Demand Balance,Haoyang Chen;Peiyan Sun;Qiyuan Song;Wanyuan Wang;Weiwei Wu;Wencan Zhang;Guanyu Gao;Yan Lyu,"Ride-hailing platforms have been facing the challenge of balancing demand and supply. Existing vehicle reposition techniques often treat drivers as homogeneous agents and relocate them deterministically, assuming compliance with the reposition. In this paper, we consider a more realistic and driver-centric scenario where drivers have unique cruising preferences and can decide whether to take the recommendation or not on their own. We propose i-Rebalance, a personalized vehicle reposition technique with deep reinforcement learning( DRL). i-Rebalance estimates drivers decisions on accepting reposition recommendations through an on-field user study involving 99 real drivers. To optimize supply-demand balance and enhance preference satisfaction simultaneously, i-Rebalance has a sequential reposition strategy with dual DRL agents: Grid Agent to determine the reposition order of idle vehicles, and Vehicle Agent to provide personalized recommendations to each vehicle in the pre-defined order. This sequential learning strategy facilitates more effective policy training within a smaller action space compared to traditional joint-action methods. Evaluation of real-world trajectory data shows that i-Rebalance improves driver acceptance rate by 38. 07% and total driver income by 9. 97%.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/27754,10.1609/aaai.v38i1.27754,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ICU Mortality Prediction: A Classification Algorithm for Imbalanced Datasets,Sakyajit Bhattacharya;Vaibhav Rajan;Harsh Shrivastava,"Determining mortality risk is important for critical decisions in Intensive Care Units( ICU). The need for machine learning models that provide accurate patient-specific prediction of mortality is well recognized. We present a new algorithm for ICU mortality prediction that is designed to address the problem of imbalance, which occurs, in the context of binary classification, when one of the two classes is significantly under--represented in the data. We take a fundamentally new approach in exploiting the class imbalance through a feature transformation such that the transformed features are easier to classify. Hypothesis testing is used for classification with a test statistic that follows the distribution of the difference of two chi-squared random variables, for which there are no analytic expressions and we derive an accurate approximation. Experiments on a benchmark dataset of 4000 ICU patients show that our algorithm surpasses the best competing methods for mortality prediction.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10721,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10721,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Identification for Tree-Shaped Structural Causal Models in Polynomial Time,Aaryan Gupta;Markus Bl\'e4ser,"Linear structural causal models( SCMs) are used to express and analyze the relationships between random variables. Direct causal effects are represented as directed edges and confounding factors as bidirected edges. Identifying the causal parameters from correlations between the nodes is an open problem in artificial intelligence. In this paper, we study SCMs whose directed component forms a tree. Van der Zander et al. give a PSPACE-algorithm for the identification problem in this case, which is a significant improvement over the general Gr\'f6bner basis approach, which has doubly-exponential time complexity in the number of structural parameters. However, they do not show that their algorithm is complete. In this work, we present a randomized polynomial-time algorithm, which solves the identification problem for tree-shaped SCMs. For every structural parameter, our algorithms decides whether it is generically identifiable, generically 2-identifiable, or generically unidentifiable. ( No other cases can occur. ) In the first two cases, it provides one or two fractional affine square root terms of polynomials( FASTPs) for the corresponding parameter, respectively. In particular, our algorithm is not only polynomial time, but also complete for for tree-shaped SCMs.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30023,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30023,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Identification of Causal Effects in the Presence of Selection Bias,Juan D. Correa;Jin Tian;Elias Bareinboim,"Cause-and-effect relations are one of the most valuable types of knowledge sought after throughout the data-driven sciences since they translate into stable and generalizable explanations as well as efficient and robust decision-making capabilities. Inferring these relations from data, however, is a challenging task. Two of the most common barriers to this goal are known as confounding and selection biases. The former stems from the systematic bias introduced during the treatment assignment, while the latter comes from the systematic bias during the collection of units into the sample. In this paper, we consider the problem of identifiability of causal effects when both confounding and selection biases are simultaneously present. We first investigate the problem of identifiability when all the available data is biased. We prove that the algorithm proposed by [Bareinboim and Tian, 2015] is, in fact, complete, namely, whenever the algorithm returns a failure condition, no identifiability claim about the causal relation can be made by any other method. We then generalize this setting to when, in addition to the biased data, another piece of external data is available, without bias. It may be the case that a subset of the covariates could be measured without bias( e. g. , from census). We examine the problem of identifiability when a combination of biased and unbiased data is available. We propose a new algorithm that subsumes the current state-of-the-art method based on the back-door criterion.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4125,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012744,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Identifying Early Warning Signals from News Using Network Community Detection,Nataliya Le Vine;Eric Boxer;Mustafa Dinani;Paolo Tortora;Subhradeep Das,"The paper addresses the challenge of accelerating identification of changes in risk drivers in the insurance industry. Specifically, the work presents a method to identify significant news events( signals) from batches of news data to inform Life & Health insurance decisions. Signals are defined as events that are relevant to a tracked risk driver, widely discussed in multiple news outlets, contain novel information and affect stakeholders. The method converts unstructured data( news articles) into a sequence of keywords by employing a linguistic knowledge graph-based model. Then, for each time window, the method forms a graph with extracted keywords as nodes and draws weighted edges based on keyword co-occurrences in articles. Lastly, events are derived in an unsupervised way as graph communities and scored for the requirements of a signal: relevance, novelty and virality. The methodology is illustrated for a Life & Health topic using news articles from Dow Jones DNA proprietary data set, and assessed against baselines on a publicly available news data set. The method is implemented as an analytics engine in Early Warning System deployed at Swiss Re for the last 1. 5 years to extract relevant events from live news data. We present the systems architectural design in production and discuss its use and impact.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21503,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21503,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Highly Innovative Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Identifying Reasons for Bias: An Argumentation-Based Approach,Madeleine Waller;Odinaldo Rodrigues;Oana Cocarascu,"As algorithmic decision-making systems become more prevalent in society, ensuring the fairness of these systems is becoming increasingly important. Whilst there has been substantial research in building fair algorithmic decision-making systems, the majority of these methods require access to the training data, including personal characteristics, and are not transparent regarding which individuals are classified unfairly. In this paper, we propose a novel model-agnostic argumentation-based method to determine why an individual is classified differently in comparison to similar individuals. Our method uses a quantitative argumentation framework to represent attribute-value pairs of an individual and of those similar to them, and uses a well-known semantics to identify the attribute-value pairs in the individual contributing most to their different classification. We evaluate our method on two datasets commonly used in the fairness literature and illustrate its effectiveness in the identification of bias.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30165,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30165,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Ideography Leads Us to the Field of Cognition: A Radical-Guided Associative Model for Chinese Text Classification,Hanqing Tao;Shiwei Tong;Kun Zhang;Tong Xu;Qi Liu;Enhong Chen;Min Hou,"Cognitive psychology research shows that humans have the instinct for abstract thinking, where association plays an essential role in language comprehension. Especially for Chinese, its ideographic writing system allows radicals to trigger semantic association without the need of phonetics. In fact, subconsciously using the associative information guided by radicals is a key for readers to ensure the robustness of semantic understanding. Fortunately, many basic and extended concepts related to radicals are systematically included in Chinese language dictionaries, which leaves a handy but unexplored way for improving Chinese text representation and classification. To this end, we draw inspirations from cognitive principles between ideography and human associative behavior to propose a novel Radical-guided Associative Model( RAM) for Chinese text classification. RAM comprises two coupled spaces, namely Literal Space and Associative Space, which imitates the real process in peoples mind when understanding a Chinese text. To be specific, we first devise a serialized modeling structure in Literal Space to thoroughly capture the sequential information of Chinese text. Then, based on the authoritative information provided by Chinese language dictionaries, we design an association module and put forward a strategy called Radical-Word Association to use ideographic radicals as the medium to associate prior concept words in Associative Space. Afterwards, we design an attention module to imitate peoples matching and decision between Literal Space and Associative Space, which can balance the importance of each associative words under specific contexts. Finally, extensive experiments on two real-world datasets prove the effectiveness and rationality of RAM, with good cognitive insights for future language modeling.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17637,10.1609/aaai.v35i15.17637,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,iGrow: A Smart Agriculture Solution to Autonomous Greenhouse Control,Xiaoyan Cao;Yao Yao;Lanqing Li;Wanpeng Zhang;Zhicheng An;Zhong Zhang;Li Xiao;Shihui Guo;Xiaoyu Cao;Meihong Wu;Dijun Luo,"Agriculture is the foundation of human civilization. However, the rapid increase of the global population poses a challenge on this cornerstone by demanding more food. Modern autonomous greenhouses, equipped with sensors and actuators, provide a promising solution to the problem by empowering precise control for high-efficient food production. However, the optimal control of autonomous greenhouses is challenging, requiring decision-making based on high-dimensional sensory data, and the scaling of production is limited by the scarcity of labor capable of handling this task. With the advances of artificial intelligence( AI) , the internet of things( IoT) , and cloud computing technologies, we are hopeful to provide a solution to automate and smarten greenhouse control to address the above challenges. In this paper, we propose a smart agriculture solution named iGrow, for autonomous greenhouse control( AGC) :( 1) for the first time, we formulate the AGC problem as a Markov decision process( MDP) optimization problem;( 2) we design a neural network-based simulator incorporated with the incremental mechanism to simulate the complete planting process of an autonomous greenhouse, which provides a testbed for the optimization of control strategies;( 3) we propose a closed-loop bi-level optimization algorithm, which can dynamically re-optimize the greenhouse control strategy with newly observed data during real-world production. We not only conduct simulation experiments but also deploy iGrow in real scenarios, and experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of iGrow in autonomous greenhouse simulation and optimal control. Particularly, compelling results from the tomato pilot project in real autonomous greenhouses show that our solution significantly increases crop yield( +10. 15%) and net profit( +92. 70%) with statistical significance compared to planting experts. Our solution opens up a new avenue for greenhouse production. The code is available at https://github. com/holmescao/iGrow. git.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21440,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21440,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Im Doing as Well as I Can: Modeling People as Rational Finite Automata,Joe Halpern;Rafael Pass;Lior Seeman,"We show that by modeling people as bounded finite automata, we can capture at a qualitative level the behavior observed in experiments. We consider a decision problem with incomplete information and a dynamically changing world, which can be viewed as an abstraction of many real-world settings. We provide a simple strategy for a finite automaton in this setting, and show that it does quite well, both through theoretical analysis and simulation. We show that, if the probability of nature changing state goes to 0 and the number of states in the automaton increases, then this strategy performs optimally( as well as if it were omniscient and knew when nature was making its state changes). Thus, although simple, the strategy is a sensible strategy for a resource-bounded agent to use. Moreover, at a qualitative level, the strategy does exactly what people have been observed to do in experiments.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8403,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8403,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reasoning Under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Importance-Aware Semantic Segmentation in Self-Driving with Discrete Wasserstein Training,Xiaofeng Liu;Yuzhuo Han;Song Bai;Yi Ge;Tianxing Wang;Xu Han;Site Li;Jane You;Jun Lu,"Semantic segmentation( SS) is an important perception manner for self-driving cars and robotics, which classifies each pixel into a pre-determined class. The widely-used cross entropy( CE) loss-based deep networks has achieved significant progress w. r. t. the mean Intersection-over Union( mIoU). However, the cross entropy loss can not take the different importance of each class in an self-driving system into account. For example, pedestrians in the image should be much more important than the surrounding buildings when make a decisions in the driving, so their segmentation results are expected to be as accurate as possible. In this paper, we propose to incorporate the importance-aware inter-class correlation in a Wasserstein training framework by configuring its ground distance matrix. The ground distance matrix can be pre-defined following a priori in a specific task, and the previous importance-ignored methods can be the particular cases. From an optimization perspective, we also extend our ground metric to a linear, convex or concave increasing function w. r. t. pre-defined ground distance. We evaluate our method on CamVid and Cityscapes datasets with different backbones( SegNet, ENet, FCN and Deeplab) in a plug and play fashion. In our extenssive experiments, Wasserstein loss demonstrates superior segmentation performance on the predefined critical classes for safe-driving.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6831,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6831,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improve Robustness of Reinforcement Learning against Observation Perturbations via l\uc0\u8734  Lipschitz Policy Networks,Buqing Nie;Jingtian Ji;Yangqing Fu;Yue Gao,"Deep Reinforcement Learning( DRL) has achieved remarkable advances in sequential decision tasks. However, recent works have revealed that DRL agents are susceptible to slight perturbations in observations. This vulnerability raises concerns regarding the effectiveness and robustness of deploying such agents in real-world applications. In this work, we propose a novel robust reinforcement learning method called SortRL, which improves the robustness of DRL policies against observation perturbations from the perspective of the network architecture. We employ a novel architecture for the policy network that incorporates global $l_\\\\infty$ Lipschitz continuity and provide a convenient method to enhance policy robustness based on the output margin. Besides, a training framework is designed for SortRL, which solves given tasks while maintaining robustness against $l_\\\\infty$ bounded perturbations on the observations. Several experiments are conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of our method, including classic control tasks and video games. The results demonstrate that SortRL achieves state-of-the-art robustness performance against different perturbation strength.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29360,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29360,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improved Gradient-Based Adversarial Attacks for Quantized Networks,Kartik Gupta;Thalaiyasingam Ajanthan,"Neural network quantization has become increasingly popular due to efficient memory consumption and faster computation resulting from bitwise operations on the quantized networks. Even though they exhibit excellent generalization capabilities, their robustness properties are not well-understood. In this work, we systematically study the robustness of quantized networks against gradient based adversarial attacks and demonstrate that these quantized models suffer from gradient vanishing issues and show a fake sense of robustness. By attributing gradient vanishing to poor forward-backward signal propagation in the trained network, we introduce a simple temperature scaling approach to mitigate this issue while preserving the decision boundary. Despite being a simple modification to existing gradient based adversarial attacks, experiments on multiple image classification datasets with multiple network architectures demonstrate that our temperature scaled attacks obtain near-perfect success rate on quantized networks while outperforming original attacks on adversarially trained models as well as floating-point networks.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20637,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20637,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improved POMDP Tree Search Planning with Prioritized Action Branching,John Mern;Anil Yildiz;Lawrence Bush;Tapan Mukerji;Mykel J. Kochenderfer,Online solvers for partially observable Markov decision processes have difficulty scaling to problems with large action spaces. This paper proposes a method called PA-POMCPOW to sample a subset of the action space that provides varying mixtures of exploitation and exploration for inclusion in a search tree. The proposed method first evaluates the action space according to a score function that is a linear combination of expected reward and expected information gain. The actions with the highest score are then added to the search tree during tree expansion. Experiments show that PA-POMCPOW is able to outperform existing state-of-the-art solvers on problems with large discrete action spaces.,2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17412,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17412,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improved Worst-Case Regret Bounds for Randomized Least-Squares Value Iteration,Priyank Agrawal;Jinglin Chen;Nan Jiang,"This paper studies regret minimization with randomized value functions in reinforcement learning. In tabular finite-horizon Markov Decision Processes, we introduce a clipping variant of one classical Thompson Sampling( TS) -like algorithm, randomized least-squares value iteration( RLSVI). Our $\\\\tilde\{\\\\mathrm\{O\}\}( H^2S\\\\sqrt\{AT\}) $ high-probability worst-case regret bound improves the previous sharpest worst-case regret bounds for RLSVI and matches the existing state-of-the-art worst-case TS-based regret bounds.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16813,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16813,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improvement-Focused Causal Recourse( ICR),Gunnar K\'f6nig;Timo Freiesleben;Moritz Grosse-Wentrup,"Algorithmic recourse recommendations inform stakeholders of how to act to revert unfavorable decisions. However, existing methods may recommend actions that lead to acceptance( i. e. , revert the models decision) but do not lead to improvement( i. e. , may not revert the underlying real-world state). To recommend such actions is to recommend fooling the predictor. We introduce a novel method, Improvement-Focused Causal Recourse( ICR) , which involves a conceptual shift: Firstly, we require ICR recommendations to guide toward improvement. Secondly, we do not tailor the recommendations to be accepted by a specific predictor. Instead, we leverage causal knowledge to design decision systems that predict accurately preand post-recourse, such that improvement guarantees translate into acceptance guarantees. Curiously, optimal pre-recourse classifiers are robust to ICR actions and thus suitable post-recourse. In semi-synthetic experiments, we demonstrate that given correct causal knowledge ICR, in contrast to existing approaches, guides toward both acceptance and improvement.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26398,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26398,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Autonomous Separation Assurance through Distributed Reinforcement Learning with Attention Networks,Marc W. Brittain;Luis E. Alvarez;Kara Breeden,"Advanced Air Mobility( AAM) introduces a new, efficient mode of transportation with the use of vehicle autonomy and electrified aircraft to provide increasingly autonomous transportation between previously underserved markets. Safe and efficient navigation of low altitude aircraft through highly dense environments requires the integration of a multitude of complex observations, such as surveillance, knowledge of vehicle dynamics, and weather. The processing and reasoning on these observations pose challenges due to the various sources of uncertainty in the information while ensuring cooperation with a variable number of aircraft in the airspace. These challenges coupled with the requirement to make safety-critical decisions in real-time rule out the use of conventional separation assurance techniques. We present a decentralized reinforcement learning framework to provide autonomous self-separation capabilities within AAM corridors with the use of speed and vertical maneuvers. The problem is formulated as a Markov Decision Process and solved by developing a novel extension to the sample-efficient, off-policy soft actor-critic( SAC) algorithm. We introduce the use of attention networks for variable-length observation processing and a distributed computing architecture to achieve high training sample throughput as compared to existing approaches. A comprehensive numerical study shows that the proposed framework can ensure safe and efficient separation of aircraft in high density, dynamic environments with various sources of uncertainty.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30321,10.1609/aaai.v38i21.30321,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Distantly Supervised Relation Extraction with Neural Noise Converter and Conditional Optimal Selector,Shanchan Wu;Kai Fan;Qiong Zhang,"Distant supervised relation extraction has been successfully applied to large corpus with thousands of relations. However, the inevitable wrong labeling problem by distant supervision will hurt the performance of relation extraction. In this paper, we propose a method with neural noise converter to alleviate the impact of noisy data, and a conditional optimal selector to make proper prediction. Our noise converter learns the structured transition matrix on logit level and captures the property of distant supervised relation extraction dataset. The conditional optimal selector on the other hand helps to make proper prediction decision of an entity pair even if the group of sentences is overwhelmed by no-relation sentences. We conduct experiments on a widely used dataset and the results show significant improvement over competitive baseline methods.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4713,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017273,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Fairness and Privacy in Selection Problems,Mohammad Mahdi Khalili;Xueru Zhang;Mahed Abroshan;Somayeh Sojoudi,"Supervised learning models have been increasingly used for making decisions about individuals in applications such as hiring, lending, and college admission. These models may inherit pre-existing biases from training datasets and discriminate against protected attributes( e. g. , race or gender). In addition to unfairness, privacy concerns also arise when the use of models reveals sensitive personal information. Among various privacy notions, differential privacy has become popular in recent years. In this work, we study the possibility of using a differentially private exponential mechanism as a post-processing step to improve both fairness and privacy of supervised learning models. Unlike many existing works, we consider a scenario where a supervised model is used to select a limited number of applicants as the number of available positions is limited. This assumption is well-suited for various scenarios, such as job application and college admission. We use ``equal opportunity as the fairness notion and show that the exponential mechanisms can make the decision-making process perfectly fair. Moreover, the experiments on real-world datasets show that the exponential mechanism can improve both privacy and fairness, with a slight decrease in accuracy compared to the model without post-processing.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16986,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16986,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Neural Relation Extraction with Positive and Unlabeled Learning,Zhengqiu He;Wenliang Chen;Yuyi Wang;Wei Zhang;Guanchun Wang;Min Zhang,"We present a novel approach to improve the performance of distant supervision relation extraction with Positive and Unlabeled( PU) Learning. This approach first applies reinforcement learning to decide whether a sentence is positive to a given relation, and then positive and unlabeled bags are constructed. In contrast to most previous studies, which mainly use selected positive instances only, we make full use of unlabeled instances and propose two new representations for positive and unlabeled bags. These two representations are then combined in an appropriate way to make bag-level prediction. Experimental results on a widely used real-world dataset demonstrate that this new approach indeed achieves significant and consistent improvements as compared to several competitive baselines.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6300,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6300,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Optimization Bounds Using Machine Learning: Decision Diagrams Meet Deep Reinforcement Learning,Quentin Cappart;Emmanuel Goutierre;David Bergman;Louis-Martin Rousseau,"Finding tight bounds on the optimal solution is a critical element of practical solution methods for discrete optimization problems. In the last decade, decision diagrams( DDs) have brought a new perspective on obtaining upper and lower bounds that can be significantly better than classical bounding mechanisms, such as linear relaxations. It is well known that the quality of the bounds achieved through this flexible bounding method is highly reliant on the ordering of variables chosen for building the diagram, and finding an ordering that optimizes standard metrics is an NP-hard problem. In this paper, we propose an innovative and generic approach based on deep reinforcement learning for obtaining an ordering for tightening the bounds obtained with relaxed and restricted DDs. We apply the approach to both the Maximum Independent Set Problem and the Maximum Cut Problem. Experimental results on synthetic instances show that the deep reinforcement learning approach, by achieving tighter objective function bounds, generally outperforms ordering methods commonly used in the literature when the distribution of instances is known. To the best knowledge of the authors, this is the first paper to apply machine learning to directly improve relaxation bounds obtained by general-purpose bounding mechanisms for combinatorial optimization problems.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3956,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011443,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Pareto Front Learning via Multi-Sample Hypernetworks,Long P. Hoang;Dung D. Le;Tran Anh Tuan;Tran Ngoc Thang,"Pareto Front Learning( PFL) was recently introduced as an effective approach to obtain a mapping function from a given trade-off vector to a solution on the Pareto front, which solves the multi-objective optimization( MOO) problem. Due to the inherent trade-off between conflicting objectives, PFL offers a flexible approach in many scenarios in which the decision makers can not specify the preference of one Pareto solution over another, and must switch between them depending on the situation. However, existing PFL methods ignore the relationship between the solutions during the optimization process, which hinders the quality of the obtained front. To overcome this issue, we propose a novel PFL framework namely PHN-HVI, which employs a hypernetwork to generate multiple solutions from a set of diverse trade-off preferences and enhance the quality of the Pareto front by maximizing the Hypervolume indicator defined by these solutions. The experimental results on several MOO machine learning tasks show that the proposed framework significantly outperforms the baselines in producing the trade-off Pareto front.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25953,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.25953,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Robust Fariness via Balance Adversarial Training,Chunyu Sun;Chenye Xu;Chengyuan Yao;Siyuan Liang;Yichao Wu;Ding Liang;Xianglong Liu;Aishan Liu,"Adversarial training( AT) methods are effective against adversarial attacks, yet they introduce severe disparity of accuracy and robustness between different classes, known as the robust fairness problem. Previously proposed Fair Robust Learning( FRL) adaptively reweights different classes to improve fairness. However, the performance of the better-performed classes decreases, leading to a strong performance drop. In this paper, we observed two unfair phenomena during adversarial training: different difficulties in generating adversarial examples from each class( source-class fairness) and disparate target class tendencies when generating adversarial examples( target-class fairness). From the observations, we propose Balance Adversarial Training( BAT) to address the robust fairness problem. Regarding source-class fairness, we adjust the attack strength and difficulties of each class to generate samples near the decision boundary for easier and fairer model learning; considering target-class fairness, by introducing a uniform distribution constraint, we encourage the adversarial example generation process for each class with a fair tendency. Extensive experiments conducted on multiple datasets( CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and ImageNette) demonstrate that our BAT can significantly outperform other baselines in mitigating the robust fairness problem( +5-10\\\\% on the worst class accuracy) ( Our codes can be found at https://github. com/silvercherry/Improving-Robust-Fairness-via-Balance-Adversarial-Training).",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26769,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26769,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving Robustness to Model Inversion Attacks via Mutual Information Regularization,Tianhao Wang;Yuheng Zhang;Ruoxi Jia,"This paper studies defense mechanisms against model inversion( MI) attacks -- a type of privacy attacks aimed at inferring information about the training data distribution given the access to a target machine learning model. Existing defense mechanisms rely on model-specific heuristics or noise injection. While being able to mitigate attacks, existing methods significantly hinder model performance. There remains a question of how to design a defense mechanism that is applicable to a variety of models and achieves better utility-privacy tradeoff. In this paper, we propose the Mutual Information Regularization based Defense( MID) against MI attacks. The key idea is to limit the information about the model input contained in the prediction, thereby limiting the ability of an adversary to infer the private training attributes from the model prediction. Our defense principle is model-agnostic and we present tractable approximations to the regularizer for linear regression, decision trees, and neural networks, which have been successfully attacked by prior work if not attached with any defenses. We present a formal study of MI attacks by devising a rigorous game-based definition and quantifying the associated information leakage. Our theoretical analysis sheds light on the inefficacy of DP in defending against MI attacks, which has been empirically observed in several prior works. Our experiments demonstrate that MID leads to state-of-the-art performance for a variety of MI attacks, target models and datasets.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17387,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17387,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Improving the Performance-Compatibility Tradeoff with Personalized Objective Functions,Jonathan Martinez;Kobi Gal;Ece Kamar;Levi H. S. Lelis,"AI-systems that model and interact with their users can up-date their models over time to reflect new information and changes in the environment. Although these updates may improve the overall performance of the AI-system, they may actually hurt the performance with respect to individual users. Prior work has studied the tradeoff between improving the system\'92s performance following an update and the compatibility of the updated system with prior user experience. The more the model is forced to be compatible with a prior version, the higher loss in performance it will incur. This paper challenges this assumption by showing that by personalizing the loss function to specific users, it is possible to increase the prediction performance of the AI-system while sacrificing less compatibility for these users. Our approach updates the sample weights to reflect their contribution to the compatibility of the model for a particular user following the update. We construct a portfolio of different models that vary in how they personalize the loss function for a user. We select the best model to use for a target user based on a validation set. We apply this approach to three supervised learning tasks commonly used in the human-computer decision-making literature. We show that using our approach leads to significant improvements in the performance-compatibility tradeoff over the non-personalized approach of Bansal et al. , achieving up to 300% improvement for certain users. We present several use cases that illustrate the difference between the personalized and non-personalized approach for two of our domains.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16745,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16745,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Incentivizing High Quality User Contributions: New Arm Generation in Bandit Learning,Yang Liu;Chien-Ju Ho,"We study the problem of incentivizing high quality contributions in user generated content platforms, in which users arrive sequentially with unknown quality. We are interested in designing a content displaying strategy which decides which content should be chosen to show to users, with the goal of maximizing user experience( i. e. , the likelihood of users liking the content). This goal naturally leads to a joint problem of incentivizing high quality contributions and learning the unknown content quality. To address the incentive issue, we consider a model in which users are strategic in deciding whether to contribute and are motivated by exposure, i. e. , they aim to maximize the number of times their contributions are viewed. For the learning perspective, we model the content quality as the probability of obtaining positive feedback( e. g. , like or upvote) from a random user. Naturally, the platform needs to resolve the classical trade-off between exploration( collecting feedback for all content) and exploitation( displaying the best content). We formulate this problem as a multi-arm bandit problem, where the number of arms( i. e. , contributions) is increasing over time and depends on the strategic choices of arriving users. We first show that applying standard bandit algorithms incentivizes a flood of low cost contributions, which in turn leads to linear regret. We then propose Rand_UCB which adds an additional layer of randomization on top of the UCB algorithm to address the issue of flooding contributions. We show that Rand_UCB helps eliminate the incentives for low quality contributions, provides incentives for high quality contributions( due to bounded number of explorations for the low quality ones) , and achieves sub-linear regrets with respect to displaying the current best arms.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11464,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11464,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Incentivizing Truthfulness Through Audits in Strategic Classification,Andrew Estornell;Sanmay Das;Yevgeniy Vorobeychik,"In many societal resource allocation domains, machine learning methods are increasingly used to either score or rank agents in order to decide which ones should receive either resources( e. g. , homeless services) or scrutiny( e. g. , child welfare investigations) from social services agencies. An agencys scoring function typically operates on a feature vector that contains a combination of self-reported features and information available to the agency about individuals or households. This can create incentives for agents to misrepresent their self-reported features in order to receive resources or avoid scrutiny, but agencies may be able to selectively audit agents to verify the veracity of their reports. We study the problem of optimal auditing of agents in such settings. When decisions are made using a threshold on an agents score, the optimal audit policy has a surprisingly simple structure, uniformly auditing all agents who could benefit from lying. While this policy can, in general be hard to compute because of the difficulty of identifying the set of agents who could benefit from lying given a complete set of reported types, we also present sufficient conditions under which it is tractable. We show that the scarce resource setting is more difficult, and exhibit an approximately optimal audit policy in this case. In addition, we show that in either setting verifying whether it is possible to incentivize exact truthfulness is hard even to approximate. However, we also exhibit sufficient conditions for solving this problem optimally, and for obtaining good approximations.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16674,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16674,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Incorporating Behavioral Constraints in Online AI Systems,Avinash Balakrishnan;Djallel Bouneffouf;Nicholas Mattei;Francesca Rossi,"AI systems that learn through reward feedback about the actions they take are increasingly deployed in domains that have significant impact on our daily life. However, in many cases the online rewards should not be the only guiding criteria, as there are additional constraints and/or priorities imposed by regulations, values, preferences, or ethical principles. We detail a novel online agent that learns a set of behavioral constraints by observation and uses these learned constraints as a guide when making decisions in an online setting while still being reactive to reward feedback. To define this agent, we propose to adopt a novel extension to the classical contextual multi-armed bandit setting and we provide a new algorithm called Behavior Constrained Thompson Sampling( BCTS) that allows for online learning while obeying exogenous constraints. Our agent learns a constrained policy that implements the observed behavioral constraints demonstrated by a teacher agent, and then uses this constrained policy to guide the reward-based online exploration and exploitation. We characterize the upper bound on the expected regret of the contextual bandit algorithm that underlies our agent and provide a case study with real world data in two application domains. Our experiments show that the designed agent is able to act within the set of behavior constraints without significantly degrading its overall reward performance.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3762,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Increasing Nogoods in Restart-Based Search,Jimmy Lee;Christian Schulte;Zichen Zhu,"Restarts are an important technique to make search more robust. This paper is concerned with how to maintain and propagate nogoods recorded from restarts efficiently. It builds on reduced nld-nogoods introduced for restarts and increasing nogoods introduced for symmetry breaking. The paper shows that reduced nld-nogoods extracted from a single restart are in fact increasing, which can thus benefit from the efficient propagation algorithm of the incNGs global constraint. We present a lighter weight filtering algorithm for incNGs in the context of restart-based search using dynamic event sets( dynamic subscriptions). We show formally that the lightweight version enforces GAC on each nogood while reducing the number of subscribed decisions. The paper also introduces an efficient approximation to nogood minimization such that all shortened reduced nld-nogoods from the same restart are also increasing and can be propagated with the new filtering algorithm. Experimental results confirm that our lightweight filtering algorithm and approximated nogood minimization successfully trade a slight loss in pruning for considerably better efficiency, and hence compare favorably against existing state-of-the-art techniques.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10437,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10437,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Search and Constraint Satisfaction,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Incremental Reinforcement Learning with Dual-Adaptive \uc0\u949 -Greedy Exploration,Wei Ding;Siyang Jiang;Hsi-Wen Chen;Ming-Syan Chen,"Reinforcement learning( RL) has achieved impressive performance in various domains. However, most RL frameworks oversimplify the problem by assuming a fixed-yet-known environment and often have difficulty being generalized to real-world scenarios. In this paper, we address a new challenge with a more realistic setting, Incremental Reinforcement Learning, where the search space of the Markov Decision Process continually expands. While previous methods usually suffer from the lack of efficiency in exploring the unseen transitions, especially with increasing search space, we present a new exploration framework named Dual-Adaptive \u1013 -greedy Exploration( DAE) to address the challenge of Incremental RL. Specifically, DAE employs a Meta Policy and an Explorer to avoid redundant computation on those sufficiently learned samples. Furthermore, we release a testbed based on a synthetic environment and the Atari benchmark to validate the effectiveness of any exploration algorithms under Incremental RL. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed framework can efficiently learn the unseen transitions in new environments, leading to notable performance improvement, i. e. , an average of more than 80%, over eight baselines examined.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25899,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25899,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Incremental Stochastic Factorization for Online Reinforcement Learning,Andre Barreto;Rafael Beirigo;Joelle Pineau;Doina Precup,"A construct that has been receiving attention recently in reinforcement learning is stochastic factorization( SF) , a particular case of non-negative factorization( NMF) in which the matrices involved are stochastic. The idea is to use SF to approximate the transition matrices of a Markov decision process( MDP). This is useful for two reasons. First, learning the factors of the SF instead of the transition matrices can reduce significantly the number of parameters to be estimated. Second, it has been shown that SF can be used to reduce the number of operations needed to compute an MDPs value function. Recently, an algorithm called expectation-maximization SF( EMSF) has been proposed to compute a SF directly from transitions sampled from an MDP. In this paper we take a closer look at EMSF. First, by exploiting the assumptions underlying the algorithm, we show that it is possible to reduce it to simple multiplicative update rules similar to the ones that helped popularize NMF. Second, we analyze the optimization process underlying EMSF and find that it minimizes a modified version of the Kullback-Leibler divergence that is particularly well-suited for learning a SF from data sampled from an arbitrary distribution. Third, we build on this improved understanding of EMSF to draw an interesting connection with NMF and probabilistic latent semantic analysis. We also exploit the simplified update rules to introduce a new version of EMSF that generalizes and significantly improves its precursor. This new algorithm provides a practical mechanism to control the trade-off between memory usage and computing time, essentially freeing the space complexity of EMSF from its dependency on the number of sample transitions. The algorithm can also compute its approximation incrementally, which makes it possible to use it concomitantly with the collection of data. This feature makes the new version of EMSF particularly suitable for online reinforcement learning. Empirical results support the utility of the proposed algorithm.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10311,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10311,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Indecision Modeling,Duncan C. McElfresh;Lok Chan;Kenzie Doyle;Walter Sinnott-Armstrong;Vincent Conitzer;Jana Schaich Borg;John P. Dickerson,"AI systems are often used to make or contribute to important decisions in a growing range of applications, including criminal justice, hiring, and medicine. Since these decisions impact human lives, it is important that the AI systems act in ways which align with human values. Techniques for preference modeling and social choice help researchers learn and aggregate peoples preferences, which are used to guide AI behavior; thus, it is imperative that these learned preferences are accurate. These techniques often assume that people are willing to express strict preferences over alternatives; which is not true in practice. People are often indecisive, and especially so when their decision has moral implications. The philosophy and psychology literature shows that indecision is a measurable and nuanced behavior---and that there are several different reasons people are indecisive. This complicates the task of both learning and aggregating preferences, since most of the relevant literature makes restrictive assumptions on the meaning of indecision. We begin to close this gap by formalizing several mathematical indecision models based on theories from philosophy, psychology, and economics; these models can be used to describe( indecisive) agent decisions, both when they are allowed to express indecision and when they are not. We test these models using data collected from an online survey where participants choose how to( hypothetically) allocate organs to patients waiting for a transplant.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16746,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16746,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Individual Fairness in Kidney Exchange Programs,Golnoosh Farnadi;William St-Arnaud;Behrouz Babaki;Margarida Carvalho,"Kidney transplant is the preferred method of treatment for patients suffering from kidney failure. However, not all patients can find a donor which matches their physiological characteristics. Kidney exchange programs( KEPs) seek to match such incompatible patient-donor pairs together, usually with the main objective of maximizing the total number of transplants. Since selecting one optimal solution translates to a decision on who receives a transplant, it has a major effect on the lives of patients. The current practice in selecting an optimal solution does not necessarily ensure fairness in the selection process. In this paper, the existence of multiple optimal plans for a KEP is explored as a mean to achieve individual fairness. We propose the use of randomized policies for selecting an optimal solution in which patients equal opportunity to receive a transplant is promoted. Our approach gives rise to the problem of enumerating all optimal solutions, which we tackle using a hybrid of constraint programming and linear programming. The advantages of our proposed method over the common practice of using the optimal solution obtained by a solver are stressed through computational experiments. Our methodology enables decision makers to fully control KEP outcomes, overcoming any potential bias or vulnerability intrinsic to a deterministic solver.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17369,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17369,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Induction of Non-Monotonic Logic Programs to Explain Boosted Tree Models Using LIME,Farhad Shakerin;Gopal Gupta,"We present a heuristic based algorithm to induce nonmonotonic logic programs that will explain the behavior of XGBoost trained classifiers. We use the technique based on the LIME approach to locally select the most important features contributing to the classification decision. Then, in order to explain the model\'92s global behavior, we propose the LIME-FOLD algorithm \'97a heuristic-based inductive logic programming( ILP) algorithm capable of learning nonmonotonic logic programs\'97that we apply to a transformed dataset produced by LIME. Our proposed approach is agnostic to the choice of the ILP algorithm. Our experiments with UCI standard benchmarks suggest a significant improvement in terms of classification evaluation metrics. Meanwhile, the number of induced rules dramatically decreases compared to ALEPH, a state-of-the-art ILP system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4163,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013052,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Inference and Learning in Dynamic Decision Networks Using Knowledge Compilation,Gabriele Venturato;Vincent Derkinderen;Pedro Zuidberg Dos Martires;Luc De Raedt,"Decision making under uncertainty in dynamic environments is a fundamental AI problem in which agents need to determine which decisions( or actions) to make at each time step to maximise their expected utility. Dynamic decision networks( DDNs) are an extension of dynamic Bayesian networks with decisions and utilities. DDNs can be used to compactly represent Markov decision processes( MDPs). We propose a novel algorithm called mapl-cirup that leverages knowledge compilation techniques developed for( dynamic) Bayesian networks to perform inference and gradient-based learning in DDNs. Specifically, we knowledge-compile the Bellman update present in DDNs into dynamic decision circuits and evaluate them within an( algebraic) model counting framework. In contrast to other exact symbolic MDP approaches, we obtain differentiable circuits that enable gradient-based parameter learning.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30042,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30042,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Inference and Learning with Model Uncertainty in Probabilistic Logic Programs,Victor Verreet;Vincent Derkinderen;Pedro Zuidberg Dos Martires;Luc De Raedt,"An issue that has so far received only limited attention in probabilistic logic programming( PLP) is the modelling of so-called epistemic uncertainty, the uncertainty about the model itself. Accurately quantifying this model uncertainty is paramount to robust inference, learning and ultimately decision making. We introduce BetaProbLog, a PLP language that can model epistemic uncertainty. BetaProbLog has sound semantics, an effective inference algorithm that combines Monte Carlo techniques with knowledge compilation, and a parameter learning algorithm. We empirically outperform state-of-the-art methods on probabilistic inference tasks in second-order Bayesian networks, digit classification and discriminative learning in the presence of epistemic uncertainty.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21245,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21245,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Inferring Lexicographically-Ordered Rewards from Preferences,Alihan H\'fcy\'fck;William R. Zame;Mihaela van der Schaar,"Modeling the preferences of agents over a set of alternatives is a principal concern in many areas. The dominant approach has been to find a single reward/utility function with the property that alternatives yielding higher rewards are preferred over alternatives yielding lower rewards. However, in many settings, preferences are based on multiple\'97often competing\'97objectives; a single reward function is not adequate to represent such preferences. This paper proposes a method for inferring multi-objective reward-based representations of an agents observed preferences. We model the agents priorities over different objectives as entering lexicographically, so that objectives with lower priorities matter only when the agent is indifferent with respect to objectives with higher priorities. We offer two example applications in healthcare\'97one inspired by cancer treatment, the other inspired by organ transplantation\'97to illustrate how the lexicographically-ordered rewards we learn can provide a better understanding of a decision-makers preferences and help improve policies when used in reinforcement learning.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20516,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20516,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Influence-Based Abstraction for Multiagent Systems,Frans Oliehoek;Stefan Witwicki;Leslie Kaelbling,"This paper presents a theoretical advance by which factored POSGs can be decomposed into local models. We formalize the interface between such local models as the influence agents can exert on one another; and we prove that this interface is sufficient for decoupling them. The resulting influence-based abstraction substantially generalizes previous work on exploiting weakly-coupled agent interaction structures. Therein lie several important contributions. First, our general formulation sheds new light on the theoretical relationships among previous approaches, and promotes future empirical comparisons that could come by extending them beyond the more specific problem contexts for which they were developed. More importantly, the influence-based approaches that we generalize have shown promising improvements in the scalability of planning for more restrictive models. Thus, our theoretical result here serves as the foundation for practical algorithms that we anticipate will bring similar improvements to more general planning contexts, and also into other domains such as approximate planning, decision-making in adversarial domains, and online learning.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8253,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8253,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Information Directed Sampling for Stochastic Bandits With Graph Feedback,Fang Liu;Swapna Buccapatnam;Ness Shroff,"We consider stochastic multi-armed bandit problems with graph feedback, where the decision maker is allowed to observe the neighboring actions of the chosen action. We allow the graph structure to vary with time and consider both deterministic and Erdos-Renyi random graph models. For such a graph feedback model, we first present a novel analysis of Thompson sampling that leads to tighter performance bound than existing work. Next, we propose new Information Directed Sampling based policies that are graph-aware in their decision making. Under the deterministic graph case, we establish a Bayesian regret bound for the proposed policies that scales with the clique cover number of the graph instead of the number of actions. Under the random graph case, we provide a Bayesian regret bound for the proposed policies that scales with the ratio of the number of actions over the expected number of observations per iteration. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first analytical result for stochastic bandits with random graph feedback. Finally, using numerical evaluations, we demonstrate that our proposed IDS policies outperform existing approaches, including adaptions of upper confidence bound, epsilon-greedy and Exp3 algorithms.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11751,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11751,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Information Set Generation in Partially Observable Games,Mark Richards;Eyal Amir,"We address the problem of making single-point decisions in large partially observable games, where players interleave observation, deliberation, and action. We present information set generation as a key operation needed to reason about games in this way. We show how this operation can be used to implement an existing decision-making algorithm. We develop a constraint satisfaction algorithm for performing information set generation and show that it scales better than the existing depth-first search approach on multiple non-trivial games.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8146,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8146,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Constraints, Satisfiability, and Search",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,INFORMEDQX: Informed Conflict Detection for Over-Constrained Problems,Viet-Man Le;Alexander Felfernig;Thi Ngoc Trang Tran;Mathias Uta,"Conflict detection is relevant in various application scenarios, ranging from interactive decision-making to the diagnosis of faulty knowledge bases. Conflicts can be regarded as sets of constraints that cause an inconsistency. In many scenarios( e. g. , constraint-based configuration) , conflicts are repeatedly determined for the same or similar sets of constraints. This misses out on the valuable opportunity for leveraging knowledge reuse and related potential performance improvements, which are extremely important, specifically interactive constraint-based applications. In this paper, we show how to integrate knowledge reuse concepts into non-instructive conflict detection. We introduce the InformedQX algorithm, which is a reuse-aware variant of QuickXPlain. The results of a related performance analysis with the Linux-2. 6. 3. 33 configuration knowledge base show significant improvements in terms of runtime performance compared to QuickXPlain.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28932,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28932,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Input Margins Can Predict Generalization Too,Coenraad Mouton;Marthinus Wilhelmus Theunissen;Marelie H Davel,"Understanding generalization in deep neural networks is an active area of research. A promising avenue of exploration has been that of margin measurements: the shortest distance to the decision boundary for a given sample or its representation internal to the network. While margins have been shown to be correlated with the generalization ability of a model when measured at its hidden representations( hidden margins) , no such link between large margins and generalization has been established for input margins. We show that while input margins are not generally predictive of generalization, they can be if the search space is appropriately constrained. We develop such a measure based on input margins, which we refer to as constrained margins. The predictive power of this new measure is demonstrated on the Predicting Generalization in Deep Learning( PGDL) dataset and contrasted with hidden representation margins. We find that constrained margins achieve highly competitive scores and outperform other margin measurements in general. This provides a novel insight on the relationship between generalization and classification margins, and highlights the importance of considering the data manifold for investigations of generalization in DNNs.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29351,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29351,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Inspecting Prediction Confidence for Detecting Black-Box Backdoor Attacks,Tong Wang;Yuan Yao;Feng Xu;Miao Xu;Shengwei An;Ting Wang,"Backdoor attacks have been shown to be a serious security threat against deep learning models, and various defenses have been proposed to detect whether a model is backdoored or not. However, as indicated by a recent black-box attack, existing defenses can be easily bypassed by implanting the backdoor in the frequency domain. To this end, we propose a new defense DTInspector against black-box backdoor attacks, based on a new observation related to the prediction confidence of learning models. That is, to achieve a high attack success rate with a small amount of poisoned data, backdoor attacks usually render a model exhibiting statistically higher prediction confidences on the poisoned samples. We provide both theoretical and empirical evidence for the generality of this observation. DTInspector then carefully examines the prediction confidences of data samples, and decides the existence of backdoor using the shortcut nature of backdoor triggers. Extensive evaluations on six backdoor attacks, four datasets, and three advanced attacking types demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed defense.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/27780,10.1609/aaai.v38i1.27780,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Instance Selection: A Bayesian Decision Theory Perspective,Qingqiang Chen;Fuyuan Cao;Ying Xing;Jiye Liang,"In this paper, we consider the problem of lacking theoretical foundation and low execution efficiency of the instance selection methods based on the k-nearest neighbour rule when processing large-scale data. We point out that the core idea of these methods can be explained from the perspective of Bayesian decision theory, that is, to find which instances are reducible, irreducible, and deleterious. Then, based on the percolation theory, we establish the relationship between these three types of instances and local homogeneous cluster( i. e. , a set of instances with the same labels). Finally, we propose a method based on an accelerated k-means algorithm to construct local homogeneous clusters and remove the superfluous instances. The performance of our method is studied on extensive synthetic and benchmark data sets. Our proposed method can handle large-scale data more effectively than the state-of-the-art instance selection methods. All code and data results are available at https://github. com/CQQXY161120/Instance-Selection.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20578,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20578,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Instance-Wise Dynamic Sensor Selection for Human Activity Recognition,Xiaodong Yang;Yiqiang Chen;Hanchao Yu;Yingwei Zhang;Wang Lu;Ruizhe Sun,"Human Activity Recognition( HAR) is an important application of smart wearable/mobile systems for many human-centric problems such as healthcare. The multi-sensor synchronous measurement has shown better performance for HAR than a single sensor. However, the multi-sensor setting increases the costs of data transmission, computation and energy. Therefore, the efficient sensor selection to balance recognition accuracy and sensor cost is the critical challenge. In this paper, we propose an Instance-wise Dynamic Sensor Selection( IDSS) method for HAR. Firstly, we formalize this problem as minimizing both activity classification loss and sensor number by dynamically selecting a sparse subset for each instance. Then, IDSS solves the above minimization problem via Markov Decision Process whose policy for sensor selection is learned by exploiting the instance-wise states using Imitation Learning. In order to optimize the parameters of the activity classification model and the sensor selection policy, an algorithm named Mutual DAgger is proposed to alternatively enhance their learning process. To evaluate the performance of IDSS, we conduct experiments on three real-world HAR datasets. The experimental results show that IDSS can effectively reduce the overall sensor number without losing accuracy and outperforms the state-of-the-art methods regarding the combined measurement of accuracy and sensor number.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5461,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5461,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Integrated Cooperation and Competition in Multi-Agent Decision-Making,Kyle Wray;Akshat Kumar;Shlomo Zilberstein,"Observing that many real-world sequential decision problems are not purely cooperative or purely competitive, we propose a new model\'97cooperative-competitive process( CCP) \'97that can simultaneously encapsulate both cooperation and competition. First, we discuss how the CCP model bridges the gap between cooperative and competitive models. Next, we investigate a specific class of group-dominant CCPs, in which agents cooperate to achieve a common goal as their primary objective, while also pursuing individual goals as a secondary objective. We provide an approximate solution for this class of problems that leverages stochastic finite-state controllers. The model is grounded in two multi-robot meeting and box-pushing domains that are implemented in simulation and demonstrated on two real robots.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11589,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11589,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Integrated Decision Gradients: Compute Your Attributions Where the Model Makes Its Decision,Chase Walker;Sumit Jha;Kenny Chen;Rickard Ewetz,"Attribution algorithms are frequently employed to explain the decisions of neural network models. Integrated Gradients( IG) is an influential attribution method due to its strong axiomatic foundation. The algorithm is based on integrating the gradients along a path from a reference image to the input image. Unfortunately, it can be observed that gradients computed from regions where the output logit changes minimally along the path provide poor explanations for the model decision, which is called the saturation effect problem. In this paper, we propose an attribution algorithm called integrated decision gradients( IDG). The algorithm focuses on integrating gradients from the region of the path where the model makes its decision, i. e. , the portion of the path where the output logit rapidly transitions from zero to its final value. This is practically realized by scaling each gradient by the derivative of the output logit with respect to the path. The algorithm thereby provides a principled solution to the saturation problem. Additionally, we minimize the errors within the Riemann sum approximation of the path integral by utilizing non-uniform subdivisions determined by adaptive sampling. In the evaluation on ImageNet, it is demonstrated that IDG outperforms IG, Left-IG, Guided IG, and adversarial gradient integration both qualitatively and quantitatively using standard insertion and deletion metrics across three common models.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28336,10.1609/aaai.v38i6.28336,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Integrating Learner Help Requests Using a POMDP in an Adaptive Training System,Jeremiah T. Folsom-Kovarik; Gita Sukthankar; Sae Schatz,"This paper describes the development and empirical testing of an intelligent tutoring system( ITS) with two emerging methodologies:( 1) a partially observable Markov decision process( POMDP) for representing the learner model and( 2) inquiry modeling, which informs the learner model with questions learners ask during instruction. POMDPs have been successfully applied to non-ITS domains but, until recently, have seemed intractable for large-scale intelligent tutoring challenges. New, ITS-specific representations leverage common regularities in intelligent tutoring to make a POMDP practical as a learner model. Inquiry modeling is a novel paradigm for informing learner models by observing rich features of learners\'92 help requests such as categorical content, context, and timing. The experiment described in this paper demonstrates that inquiry modeling and planning with POMDPs can yield significant and substantive learning improvements in a realistic, scenario-based training task.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/18971,10.1609/aaai.v26i2.18971,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Integrating Linguistic Knowledge to Sentence Paraphrase Generation,Zibo Lin;Ziran Li;Ning Ding;Hai-Tao Zheng;Ying Shen;Wei Wang;Cong-Zhi Zhao,"Paraphrase generation aims to rewrite a text with different words while keeping the same meaning. Previous work performs the task based solely on the given dataset while ignoring the availability of external linguistic knowledge. However, it is intuitive that a model can generate more expressive and diverse paraphrase with the help of such knowledge. To fill this gap, we propose Knowledge-Enhanced Paraphrase Network( KEPN) , a transformer-based framework that can leverage external linguistic knowledge to facilitate paraphrase generation. ( 1) The model integrates synonym information from the external linguistic knowledge into the paraphrase generator, which is used to guide the decision on whether to generate a new word or replace it with a synonym. ( 2) To locate the synonym pairs more accurately, we adopt an incremental encoding scheme to incorporate position information of each synonym. Besides, a multi-task architecture is designed to help the framework jointly learn the selection of synonym pairs and the generation of expressive paraphrase. Experimental results on both English and Chinese datasets show that our method significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art approaches in terms of both automatic and human evaluation.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6354,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6354,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Integrating Reward Maximization and Population Estimation: Sequential Decision-Making for Internal Revenue Service Audit Selection,Peter Henderson;Ben Chugg;Brandon Anderson;Kristen Altenburger;Alex Turk;John Guyton;Jacob Goldin;Daniel E. Ho,"We introduce a new setting, optimize-and-estimate structured bandits. Here, a policy must select a batch of arms, each characterized by its own context, that would allow it to both maximize reward and maintain an accurate( ideally unbiased) population estimate of the reward. This setting is inherent to many public and private sector applications and often requires handling delayed feedback, small data, and distribution shifts. We demonstrate its importance on real data from the United States Internal Revenue Service( IRS). The IRS performs yearly audits of the tax base. Two of its most important objectives are to identify suspected misreporting and to estimate the tax gap -- the global difference between the amount paid and true amount owed. Based on a unique collaboration with the IRS, we cast these two processes as a unified optimize-and-estimate structured bandit. We analyze optimize-and-estimate approaches to the IRS problem and propose a novel mechanism for unbiased population estimation that achieves rewards comparable to baseline approaches. This approach has the potential to improve audit efficacy, while maintaining policy-relevant estimates of the tax gap. This has important social consequences given that the current tax gap is estimated at nearly half a trillion dollars. We suggest that this problem setting is fertile ground for further research and we highlight its interesting challenges. The results of this and related research are currently being incorporated into the continual improvement of the IRS audit selection methods.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25637,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25637,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Integrating the Cognitive with the Physical: Musical Path Planning for an Improvising Robot,Mason Bretan;Gil Weinberg,"Embodied cognition is a theory stating that the processes and functions comprising the human mind are influenced by a persons physical body. Embodied musical cognition is a theory of the musical mind stating that the persons body largely influences his or her musical experiences and actions( such as performing, learning, or listening to music). In this work, a proof of concept demonstrating the utility of an embodied musical cognition for robotic musicianship is described. Though alternative theories attempting to explain human musical cognition exist( such as cognitivism and connectionism) , this work contends that the integration of physical constraints and musical knowledge is vital for a robot in order to optimize note generating decisions based on limitations of sound generating motion and enable more engaging performance through increased coherence between the generated music and sound accompanying motion. Moreover, such a system allows for efficient and autonomous exploration of the relationship between music and physicality and the resulting music that is contingent on such a connection.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11158,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11158,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track on Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interleave Variational Optimization with Monte Carlo Sampling: A Tale of Two Approximate Inference Paradigms,Qi Lou;Rina Dechter;Alexander Ihler,"Computing the partition function of a graphical model is a fundamental task in probabilistic inference. Variational bounds and Monte Carlo methods, two important approximate paradigms for this task, each has its respective strengths for solving different types of problems, but it is often nontrivial to decide which one to apply to a particular problem instance without significant prior knowledge and a high level of expertise. In this paper, we propose a general framework that interleaves optimization of variational bounds( via message passing) with Monte Carlo sampling. Our adaptive interleaving policy can automatically balance the computational effort between these two schemes in an instance-dependent way, which provides our framework with the strengths of both schemes, leads to tighter anytime bounds and an unbiased estimate of the partition function, and allows flexible tradeoffs between memory, time, and solution quality. We verify our approach empirically on real-world problems taken from recent UAI inference competitions.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4789,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017900,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interpretable and Differentially Private Predictions,Frederik Harder;Matthias Bauer;Mijung Park,"Interpretable predictions, which clarify why a machine learning model makes a particular decision, can compromise privacy by revealing the characteristics of individual data points. This raises the central question addressed in this paper: Can models be interpretable without compromising privacy? For complex \'93big\'94 data fit by correspondingly rich models, balancing privacy and explainability is particularly challenging, such that this question has remained largely unexplored. In this paper, we propose a family of simple models with the aim of approximating complex models using several locally linear maps per class to provide high classification accuracy, as well as differentially private explanations on the classification. We illustrate the usefulness of our approach on several image benchmark datasets as well as a medical dataset.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5827,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5827,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interpretable Low-Resource Legal Decision Making,Rohan Bhambhoria;Hui Liu;Samuel Dahan;Xiaodan Zhu,"Over the past several years, legal applications of deep learning have been on the rise. However, as with other high-stakes decision making areas, the requirement for interpretability is of crucial importance. Current models utilized by legal practitioners are more of the conventional machine learning type, wherein they are inherently interpretable, yet unable to harness the performance capabilities of data-driven deep learning models. In this work, we utilize deep learning models in the area of trademark law to shed light on the issue of likelihood of confusion between trademarks. Specifically, we introduce a model-agnostic interpretable intermediate layer, a technique which proves to be effective for legal documents. Furthermore, we utilize weakly supervised learning by means of a curriculum learning strategy, effectively demonstrating the improved performance of a deep learning model. This is in contrast to the conventional models which are only able to utilize the limited number of expensive manually-annotated samples by legal experts. Although the methods presented in this work tackles the task of risk of confusion for trademarks, it is straightforward to extend them to other fields of law, or more generally, to other similar high-stakes application scenarios.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21438,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21438,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interpretable Self-Supervised Facial Micro-Expression Learning to Predict Cognitive State and Neurological Disorders,Arun Das;Jeffrey Mock;Yufei Huang;Edward Golob;Peyman Najafirad,"Human behavior is the confluence of output from voluntary and involuntary motor systems. The neural activities that mediate behavior, from individual cells to distributed networks, are in a state of constant flux. Artificial intelligence( AI) research over the past decade shows that behavior, in the form of facial muscle activity, can reveal information about fleeting voluntary and involuntary motor system activity related to emotion, pain, and deception. However, the AI algorithms often lack an explanation for their decisions, and learning meaningful representations requires large datasets labeled by a subject-matter expert. Motivated by the success of using facial muscle movements to classify brain states and the importance of learning from small amounts of data, we propose an explainable self-supervised representation-learning paradigm that learns meaningful temporal facial muscle movement patterns from limited samples. We validate our methodology by carrying out comprehensive empirical study to predict future speech behavior in a real-world dataset of adults who stutter( AWS). Our explainability study found facial muscle movements around the eyes( p<0. 001) and lips( p<0. 001) differ significantly before producing fluent vs. disfluent speech. Evaluations using the AWS dataset demonstrates that the proposed self-supervised approach achieves a minimum of 2. 51% accuracy improvement over fully-supervised approaches.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16164,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16164,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Cognitive Modeling and Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interpretable3D: An Ad-Hoc Interpretable Classifier for 3D Point Clouds,Tuo Feng;Ruijie Quan;Xiaohan Wang;Wenguan Wang;Yi Yang,"3D decision-critical tasks urgently require research on explanations to ensure system reliability and transparency. Extensive explanatory research has been conducted on 2D images, but there is a lack in the 3D field. Furthermore, the existing explanations for 3D models are post-hoc and can be misleading, as they separate explanations from the original model. To address these issues, we propose an ad-hoc interpretable classifier for 3D point clouds( i. e. , Interpretable3D). As an intuitive case-based classifier, Interpretable3D can provide reliable ad-hoc explanations without any embarrassing nuances. It allows users to understand how queries are embedded within past observations in prototype sets. Interpretable3D has two iterative training steps: 1) updating one prototype with the mean of the embeddings within the same sub-class in Prototype Estimation, and 2) penalizing or rewarding the estimated prototypes in Prototype Optimization. The mean of embeddings has a clear statistical meaning, i. e. , class sub-centers. Moreover, we update prototypes with their most similar observations in the last few epochs. Finally, Interpretable3D classifies new samples according to prototypes. We evaluate the performance of Interpretable3D on four popular point cloud models: DGCNN, PointNet2, PointMLP, and PointNeXt. Our Interpretable3D demonstrates comparable or superior performance compared to softmax-based black-box models in the tasks of 3D shape classification and part segmentation. Our code is released at: github. com/FengZicai/Interpretable3D.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/27944,10.1609/aaai.v38i2.27944,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interpreting Deep Models for Text Analysis via Optimization and Regularization Methods,Hao Yuan;Yongjun Chen;Xia Hu;Shuiwang Ji,"Interpreting deep neural networks is of great importance to understand and verify deep models for natural language processing( NLP) tasks. However, most existing approaches only focus on improving the performance of models but ignore their interpretability. In this work, we propose an approach to investigate the meaning of hidden neurons of the convolutional neural network( CNN) models. We first employ saliency map and optimization techniques to approximate the detected information of hidden neurons from input sentences. Then we develop regularization terms and explore words in vocabulary to interpret such detected information. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach can identify meaningful and reasonable interpretations for hidden spatial locations. Additionally, we show that our approach can describe the decision procedure of deep NLP models.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4517,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015717,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Interventional SHAP Values and Interaction Values for Piecewise Linear Regression Trees,Artjom Zern;Klaus Broelemann;Gjergji Kasneci,"In recent years, game-theoretic Shapley values have gained increasing attention with respect to local model explanation by feature attributions. While the approach using Shapley values is model-independent, their( exact) computation is usually intractable, so efficient model-specific algorithms have been devised including approaches for decision trees or their ensembles in general. Our work goes further in this direction by extending the interventional TreeSHAP algorithm to piecewise linear regression trees, which gained more attention in the past few years. To this end, we introduce a decomposition of the contribution function based on decision paths, which allows a more comprehensible formulation of SHAP algorithms for tree-based models. Our algorithm can also be readily applied to computing SHAP interaction values of these models. In particular, as the main contribution of this paper, we provide a more efficient approach of interventional SHAP for tree-based models by precomputing statistics of the background data based on the tree structure.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26322,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26322,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Introducing Ethical Thinking About Autonomous Vehicles Into an AI Course,Heidi Furey;Fred Martin,"A computer science faculty member and a philosophy faculty member collaborated in the development of a one-week introduction to ethics which was integrated into a traditional AI course. The goals were to:( 1) encourage students to think about the moral complexities involved in developing accident algorithms for autonomous vehicles, ( 2) identify what issues need to be addressed in order to develop a satisfactory solution to the moral issues surrounding these algorithms, and( 3) and to offer students an example of how computer scientists and ethicists must work together to solve a complex technical and moral problems. The course module introduced Utilitarianism and engaged students in considering the classic Trolley Problem, which has gained contemporary relevance with the emergence of autonomous vehicles. Students used this introduction to ethics in thinking through the implications of their final projects. Results from the module indicate that students gained some fluency with Utilitarianism, including a strong understanding of the Trolley Problem. This short paper argues for the need of providing students with instruction in ethics in AI course. Given the strong alignment between AIs decision-theoretic approaches and Utilitarianism, we highlight the difficulty of encouraging AI students to challenge these assumptions.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11397,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11397,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI18 - Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Invariant Action Effect Model for Reinforcement Learning,Zheng-Mao Zhu;Shengyi Jiang;Yu-Ren Liu;Yang Yu;Kun Zhang,"Good representations can help RL agents perform concise modeling of their surroundings, and thus support effective decision-making in complex environments. Previous methods learn good representations by imposing extra constraints on dynamics. However, in the causal perspective, the causation between the action and its effect is not fully considered in those methods, which leads to the ignorance of the underlying relations among the action effects on the transitions. Based on the intuition that the same action always causes similar effects among different states, we induce such causation by taking the invariance of action effects among states as the relation. By explicitly utilizing such invariance, in this paper, we show that a better representation can be learned and potentially improves the sample efficiency and the generalization ability of the learned policy. We propose Invariant Action Effect Model( IAEM) to capture the invariance in action effects, where the effect of an action is represented as the residual of representations from neighboring states. IAEM is composed of two parts:( 1) a new contrastive-based loss to capture the underlying invariance of action effects;( 2) an individual action effect and provides a self-adapted weighting strategy to tackle the corner cases where the invariance does not hold. The extensive experiments on two benchmarks, i. e. Grid-World and Atari, show that the representations learned by IAEM preserve the invariance of action effects. Moreover, with the invariant action effect, IAEM can accelerate the learning process by 1. 6x, rapidly generalize to new environments by fine-tuning on a few components, and outperform other dynamics-based representation methods by 1. 4x in limited steps.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20913,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20913,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Invariant Random Forest: Tree-Based Model Solution for OOD Generalization,Yufan Liao;Qi Wu;Xing Yan,"Out-Of-Distribution( OOD) generalization is an essential topic in machine learning. However, recent research is only focusing on the corresponding methods for neural networks. This paper introduces a novel and effective solution for OOD generalization of decision tree models, named Invariant Decision Tree( IDT). IDT enforces a penalty term with regard to the unstable/varying behavior of a split across different environments during the growth of the tree. Its ensemble version, the Invariant Random Forest( IRF) , is constructed. Our proposed method is motivated by a theoretical result under mild conditions, and validated by numerical tests with both synthetic and real datasets. The superior performance compared to non-OOD tree models implies that considering OOD generalization for tree models is absolutely necessary and should be given more attention.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29283,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29283,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Inverse Reinforcement Learning From Like-Minded Teachers,Ritesh Noothigattu;Tom Yan;Ariel D. Procaccia,"We study the problem of learning a policy in a Markov decision process( MDP) based on observations of the actions taken by multiple teachers. We assume that the teachers are like-minded in that their reward functions -- while different from each other -- are random perturbations of an underlying reward function. Under this assumption, we demonstrate that inverse reinforcement learning algorithms that satisfy a certain property -- that of matching feature expectations -- yield policies that are approximately optimal with respect to the underlying reward function, and that no algorithm can do better in the worst case. We also show how to efficiently recover the optimal policy when the MDP has one state -- a setting that is akin to multi-armed bandits.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17110,10.1609/aaai.v35i10.17110,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Inverse Weight-Balancing for Deep Long-Tailed Learning,Wenqi Dang;Zhou Yang;Weisheng Dong;Xin Li;Guangming Shi,"The performance of deep learning models often degrades rapidly when faced with imbalanced data characterized by a long-tailed distribution. Researchers have found that the fully connected layer trained by cross-entropy loss has large weight-norms for classes with many samples, but not for classes with few samples. How to address the data imbalance problem with both the encoder and the classifier seems an under-researched problem. In this paper, we propose an inverse weight-balancing( IWB) approach to guide model training and alleviate the data imbalance problem in two stages. In the first stage, an encoder and classifier( the fully connected layer) are trained using conventional cross-entropy loss. In the second stage, with a fixed encoder, the classifier is finetuned through an adaptive distribution for IWB in the decision space. Unlike existing inverse image frequency that implements a multiplicative margin adjustment transformation in the classification layer, our approach can be interpreted as an adaptive distribution alignment strategy using not only the class-wise number distribution but also the sample-wise difficulty distribution in both encoder and classifier. Experiments show that our method can greatly improve performance on imbalanced datasets such as CIFAR100-LT with different imbalance factors, ImageNet-LT, and iNaturelists2018.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29055,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.29055,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Investigations of Performance and Bias in Human-AI Teamwork in Hiring,Andi Peng;Besmira Nushi;Emre Kiciman;Kori Inkpen;Ece Kamar,"In AI-assisted decision-making, effective hybrid( human-AI) teamwork is not solely dependent on AI performance alone, but also on its impact on human decision-making. While prior work studies the effects of model accuracy on humans, we endeavour here to investigate the complex dynamics of how both a models predictive performance and bias may transfer to humans in a recommendation-aided decision task. We consider the domain of ML-assisted hiring, where humans---operating in a constrained selection setting---can choose whether they wish to utilize a trained models inferences to help select candidates from written biographies. We conduct a large-scale user study leveraging a re-created dataset of real bios from prior work, where humans predict the ground truth occupation of given candidates with and without the help of three different NLP classifiers( random, bag-of-words, and deep neural network). Our results demonstrate that while high-performance models significantly improve human performance in a hybrid setting, some models mitigate hybrid bias while others accentuate it. We examine these findings through the lens of decision conformity and observe that our model architecture choices have an impact on human-AI conformity and bias, motivating the explicit need to assess these complex dynamics prior to deployment.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21468,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21468,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IPO: Interior-Point Policy Optimization under Constraints,Yongshuai Liu;Jiaxin Ding;Xin Liu,"In this paper, we study reinforcement learning( RL) algorithms to solve real-world decision problems with the objective of maximizing the long-term reward as well as satisfying cumulative constraints. We propose a novel first-order policy optimization method, Interior-point Policy Optimization( IPO) , which augments the objective with logarithmic barrier functions, inspired by the interior-point method. Our proposed method is easy to implement with performance guarantees and can handle general types of cumulative multi-constraint settings. We conduct extensive evaluations to compare our approach with state-of-the-art baselines. Our algorithm outperforms the baseline algorithms, in terms of reward maximization and constraint satisfaction.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5932,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5932,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IPOMDP-Net: A Deep Neural Network for Partially Observable Multi-Agent Planning Using Interactive POMDPs,Yanlin Han;Piotr Gmytrasiewicz,"This paper introduces the IPOMDP-net, a neural network architecture for multi-agent planning under partial observability. It embeds an interactive partially observable Markov decision process( I-POMDP) model and a QMDP planning algorithm that solves the model in a neural network architecture. The IPOMDP-net is fully differentiable and allows for end-to-end training. In the learning phase, we train an IPOMDP-net on various fixed and randomly generated environments in a reinforcement learning setting, assuming observable reinforcements and unknown( randomly initialized) model functions. In the planning phase, we test the trained network on new, unseen variants of the environments under the planning setting, using the trained model to plan without reinforcements. Empirical results show that our model-based IPOMDP-net outperforms the other state-of-the-art modelfree network and generalizes better to larger, unseen environments. Our approach provides a general neural computing architecture for multi-agent planning using I-POMDPs. It suggests that, in a multi-agent setting, having a model of other agents benefits our decision-making, resulting in a policy of higher quality and better generalizability.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4562,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016062,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IPRemover: A Generative Model Inversion Attack against Deep Neural Network Fingerprinting and Watermarking,Wei Zong;Yang-Wai Chow;Willy Susilo;Joonsang  Baek;Jongkil Kim;Seyit Camtepe,"Training Deep Neural Networks( DNNs) can be expensive when data is difficult to obtain or labeling them requires significant domain expertise. Hence, it is crucial that the Intellectual Property( IP) of DNNs trained on valuable data be protected against IP infringement. DNN fingerprinting and watermarking are two lines of work in DNN IP protection. Recently proposed DNN fingerprinting techniques are able to detect IP infringement while preserving model performance by relying on the key assumption that the decision boundaries of independently trained models are intrinsically different from one another. In contrast, DNN watermarking embeds a watermark in a model and verifies IP infringement if an identical or similar watermark is extracted from a suspect model. The techniques deployed in fingerprinting and watermarking vary significantly because their underlying mechanisms are different. From an adversarys perspective, a successful IP removal attack should defeat both fingerprinting and watermarking. However, to the best of our knowledge, there is no work on such attacks in the literature yet. In this paper, we fill this gap by presenting an IP removal attack that can defeat both fingerprinting and watermarking. We consider the challenging data-free scenario whereby all data is inverted from the victim model. Under this setting, a stolen model only depends on the victim model. Experimental results demonstrate the success of our attack in defeating state-of-the-art DNN fingerprinting and watermarking techniques. This work reveals a novel attack surface that exploits generative model inversion attacks to bypass DNN IP defenses. This threat must be addressed by future defenses for reliable IP protection.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28619,10.1609/aaai.v38i7.28619,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Is a Picture Worth a Thousand Words? A Deep Multi-Modal Architecture for Product Classification in E-Commerce,Tom Zahavy;Abhinandan Krishnan;Alessandro Magnani;Shie Mannor,"Classifying products precisely and efficiently is a major challenge in modern e-commerce. The high traffic of new products uploaded daily and the dynamic nature of the categories raise the need for machine learning models that can reduce the cost and time of human editors. In this paper, we propose a decision level fusion approach for multi-modal product classification based on text and image neural network classifiers. We train input specific state-of-the-art deep neural networks for each input source, show the potential of forging them together into a multi-modal architecture and train a novel policy network that learns to choose between them. Finally, we demonstrate that our multi-modal network improves classification accuracy over both networks on a real-world large-scale product classification dataset that we collected from Walmart. com. While we focus on image-text fusion that characterizes e-commerce businesses, our algorithms can be easily applied to other modalities such as audio, video, physical sensors, etc.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11419,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11419,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI18 - Emerging,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Is the Most Accurate AI the Best Teammate? Optimizing AI for Teamwork,Gagan Bansal;Besmira Nushi;Ece Kamar;Eric Horvitz;Daniel S. Weld,"AI practitioners typically strive to develop the most accurate systems, making an implicit assumption that the AI system will function autonomously. However, in practice, AI systems often are used to provide advice to people in domains ranging from criminal justice and finance to healthcare. In such AI-advised decision making, humans and machines form a team, where the human is responsible for making final decisions. But is the most accurate AI the best teammate? We argue not necessarily --- predictable performance may be worth a slight sacrifice in AI accuracy. Instead, we argue that AI systems should be trained in a human-centered manner, directly optimized for team performance. We study this proposal for a specific type of human-AI teaming, where the human overseer chooses to either accept the AI recommendation or solve the task themselves. To optimize the team performance for this setting we maximize the teams expected utility, expressed in terms of the quality of the final decision, cost of verifying, and individual accuracies of people and machines. Our experiments with linear and non-linear models on real-world, high-stakes datasets show that the most accuracy AI may not lead to highest team performance and show the benefit of modeling teamwork during training through improvements in expected team utility across datasets, considering parameters such as human skill and the cost of mistakes. We discuss the shortcoming of current optimization approaches beyond well-studied loss functions such as log-loss, and encourage future work on AI optimization problems motivated by human-AI collaboration.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17359,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17359,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Iterative Bounding MDPs: Learning Interpretable Policies via Non-Interpretable Methods,Nicholay Topin;Stephanie Milani;Fei Fang;Manuela Veloso,"Current work in explainable reinforcement learning generally produces policies in the form of a decision tree over the state space. Such policies can be used for formal safety verification, agent behavior prediction, and manual inspection of important features. However, existing approaches fit a decision tree after training or use a custom learning procedure which is not compatible with new learning techniques, such as those which use neural networks. To address this limitation, we propose a novel Markov Decision Process( MDP) type for learning decision tree policies: Iterative Bounding MDPs( IBMDPs). An IBMDP is constructed around a base MDP so each IBMDP policy is guaranteed to correspond to a decision tree policy for the base MDP when using a method-agnostic masking procedure. Because of this decision tree equivalence, any function approximator can be used during training, including a neural network, while yielding a decision tree policy for the base MDP. We present the required masking procedure as well as a modified value update step which allows IBMDPs to be solved using existing algorithms. We apply this procedure to produce IBMDP variants of recent reinforcement learning methods. We empirically show the benefits of our approach by solving IBMDPs to produce decision tree policies for the base MDPs.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17192,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17192,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Iterative Delegations in Liquid Democracy with Restricted Preferences,Bruno Escoffier;Hugo Gilbert;Ad\'e8le Pass-Lanneau,"Liquid democracy is a collective decision making paradigm which lies between direct and representative democracy. One main feature of liquid democracy is that voters can delegate their votes in a transitive manner so that: A delegates to B and B delegates to C leads to A delegates to C. Unfortunately, because voters preferences over delegates may be conflicting, this process may not converge. There may not even exist a stable state( also called equilibrium). In this paper, we investigate the stability of the delegation process in liquid democracy when voters have restricted types of preference on the agent representing them( e. g. , single-peaked preferences). We show that various natural structures of preference guarantee the existence of an equilibrium and we obtain both tractability and hardness results for the problem of computing several equilibria with some desirable properties.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5562,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5562,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,K-N-MOMDPs: Towards Interpretable Solutions for Adaptive Management,Jonathan Ferrer-Mestres;Thomas G. Dietterich;Olivier Buffet;Iadine Chades,"In biodiversity conservation, adaptive management( AM) is the principal tool for decision making under uncertainty. AM problems are planning problems that can be modelled using Mixed Observability MDPs( MOMDPs). MOMDPs tackle decision problems where state variables are completely or partially observable. Unfortunately, MOMDP solutions( policy graphs) are too complex to be interpreted by human decision-makers. Here, we provide algorithms to solve K-N-MOMDPs, where K represents the maximum number of fully observable states and N represents the maximum number of alpha-vectors. Our algorithms calculate compact and more interpretable policy graphs from existing MOMDP models and solutions. We apply these algorithms to two computational sustainability applications: optimal release of bio-control agents to prevent dengue epidemics and conservation of the threatened bird species Gouldian finch. The methods dramatically reduce the number of states and alpha-vectors in MOMDP problems without significantly reducing their quality. The resulting policies have small policy graphs( 4-6 nodes) that can be easily interpreted by human decision-makers.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17735,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17735,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Keep the Faith: Faithful Explanations in Convolutional Neural Networks for Case-Based Reasoning,Tom Nuno Wolf;Fabian Bongratz;Anne-Marie Rickmann;Sebastian P\'f6lsterl;Christian Wachinger,"Explaining predictions of black-box neural networks is crucial when applied to decision-critical tasks. Thus, attribution maps are commonly used to identify important image regions, despite prior work showing that humans prefer explanations based on similar examples. To this end, ProtoPNet learns a set of class-representative feature vectors( prototypes) for case-based reasoning. During inference, similarities of latent features to prototypes are linearly classified to form predictions and attribution maps are provided to explain the similarity. In this work, we evaluate whether architectures for case-based reasoning fulfill established axioms required for faithful explanations using the example of ProtoPNet. We show that such architectures allow the extraction of faithful explanations. However, we prove that the attribution maps used to explain the similarities violate the axioms. We propose a new procedure to extract explanations for trained ProtoPNets, named ProtoPFaith. Conceptually, these explanations are Shapley values, calculated on the similarity scores of each prototype. They allow to faithfully answer which prototypes are present in an unseen image and quantify each pixel\'92s contribution to that presence, thereby complying with all axioms. The theoretical violations of ProtoPNet manifest in our experiments on three datasets( CUB-200-2011, Stanford Dogs, RSNA) and five architectures( ConvNet, ResNet, ResNet50, WideResNet50, ResNeXt50). Our experiments show a qualitative difference between the explanations given by ProtoPNet and ProtoPFaith. Additionally, we quantify the explanations with the Area Over the Perturbation Curve, on which ProtoPFaith outperforms ProtoPNet on all experiments by a factor >10^3.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28406,10.1609/aaai.v38i6.28406,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Kernel-Based Reinforcement Learning on Representative States,Branislav Kveton;Georgios Theocharous,"Markov decision processes( MDPs) are an established framework for solving sequential decision-making problems under uncertainty. In this work, we propose a new method for batch-mode reinforcement learning( RL) with continuous state variables. The method is an approximation to kernel-based RL on a set of k representative states. Similarly to kernel-based RL, our solution is a fixed point of a kernelized Bellman operator and can approximate the optimal solution to an arbitrary level of granularity. Unlike kernel-based RL, our method is fast. In particular, our policies can be computed in O( n) time, where n is the number of training examples. The time complexity of kernel-based RL is \uc0\u937 ( n2). We introduce our method, analyze its convergence, and compare it to existing work. The method is evaluated on two existing control problems with 2 to 4 continuous variables and a new problem with 64 variables. In all cases, we outperform state-of-the-art results and offer simpler solutions.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8294,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8294,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knocking in the Game of Gin Rummy,Ryzeson C. Maravich;Taylor C. Neller;Todd W. Neller,"We perform an empirical study of Gin Rummy knocking strategies, drawing insight from a population of AI players that vary in both discarding and knocking strategies. For our best performing player, simple linear regression yielded a knocking strategy that both affirmed the features expert players give attention to in making knock decisions, and yet called into question the way such features are conventionally used.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17837,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17837,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knowledge Distillation with Adversarial Samples Supporting Decision Boundary,Byeongho Heo;Minsik Lee;Sangdoo Yun;Jin Young Choi,"Many recent works on knowledge distillation have provided ways to transfer the knowledge of a trained network for improving the learning process of a new one, but finding a good technique for knowledge distillation is still an open problem. In this paper, we provide a new perspective based on a decision boundary, which is one of the most important component of a classifier. The generalization performance of a classifier is closely related to the adequacy of its decision boundary, so a good classifier bears a good decision boundary. Therefore, transferring information closely related to the decision boundary can be a good attempt for knowledge distillation. To realize this goal, we utilize an adversarial attack to discover samples supporting a decision boundary. Based on this idea, to transfer more accurate information about the decision boundary, the proposed algorithm trains a student classifier based on the adversarial samples supporting the decision boundary. Experiments show that the proposed method indeed improves knowledge distillation and achieves the state-of-the-arts performance.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4263,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013771,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knowledge Refinement via Rule Selection,Phokion G. Kolaitis;Lucian Popa;Kun Qian,"In several different applications, including data transformation and entity resolution, rules are used to capture aspects of knowledge about the application at hand. Often, a large set of such rules is generated automatically or semi-automatically, and the challenge is to refine the encapsulated knowledge by selecting a subset of rules based on the expected operational behavior of the rules on available data. In this paper, we carry out a systematic complexity-theoretic investigation of the following rule selection problem: given a set of rules specified by Horn formulas, and a pair of an input database and an output database, find a subset of the rules that minimizes the total error, that is, the number of false positive and false negative errors arising from the selected rules. We first establish computational hardness results for the decision problems underlying this minimization problem, as well as upper and lower bounds for its approximability. We then investigate a bi-objective optimization version of the rule selection problem in which both the total error and the size of the selected rules are taken into account. We show that testing for membership in the Pareto front of this bi-objective optimization problem is DP-complete. Finally, we show that a similar DP-completeness result holds for a bi-level optimization version of the rule selection problem, where one minimizes first the total error and then the size.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4143,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012886,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knowledge-aware Leap-LSTM: Integrating Prior Knowledge into Leap-LSTM towards Faster Long Text Classification,Jinhua Du;Yan Huang;Karo Moilanen,"While widely used in industry, recurrent neural networks( RNNs) are known to have deficiencies in dealing with long sequences( e. g. slow inference, vanishing gradients etc. ). Recent research has attempted to accelerate RNN models by developing mechanisms to skip irrelevant words in input. Due to the lack of labelled data, it remains as a challenge to decide which words to skip, especially for low-resource classification tasks. In this paper, we propose Knowledge-AwareLeap-LSTM( KALL) , a novel architecture which integrates prior human knowledge( created either manually or automatically) like in-domain keywords, terminologies or lexicons into Leap-LSTM to partially supervise the skipping process. More specifically, we propose a knowledge-oriented cost function for KALL; furthermore, we propose two strategies to integrate the knowledge:( 1) the Factored KALL approach involves a keyword indicator as a soft constraint for the skip-ping process, and( 2) the Gated KALL enforces the inclusion of keywords while maintaining a differentiable network in training. Experiments on different public datasets show that our approaches are1. 1x~2. 6x faster than LSTM with better accuracy and 23. 6x faster than XLNet in a resource-limited CPU-only environment.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17511,10.1609/aaai.v35i14.17511,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knowledge-Base Degrees of Inconsistency: Complexity and Counting,Johannes K. Fichte;Markus Hecher;Arne Meier,"Description logics( DLs) are knowledge representation languages that are used in the field of artificial intelligence( AI). A common technique is to query DL knowledge bases, e. g. , by Boolean Datalog queries, and ask for entailment. But real world knowledge-bases are often obtained by combining data from various sources. This, inherently, might result in certain inconsistencies( with respect to a given query) and requires to estimate a degree of inconsistency before using a knowledge-base. In this paper, we provide a complexity analysis of fixed-domain non-entailment( NE) on Datalog programs for well-established families of knowledge bases( KBs). We exhibit a detailed complexity map for the decision cases, counting and projected counting, which may serve as a quantitative measure for inconsistency of a KB with respect to a query. Our results show that NE is natural for the second, third, and fourth level of the polynomial( counting) hierarchy depending on the type of the studied query( stratified, normal, disjunctive) and one level higher for the projected versions. Further, we show fixed-parameter tractability by bounding the treewidth, provide a constructive algorithm, and show its theoretical limitation in terms of conditional lower bounds.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16788,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16788,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Knowledge-Based Policies for Qualitative Decentralized POMDPs,Abdallah Saffidine;Fran\'e7ois Schwarzentruber;Bruno Zanuttini,"Qualitative Decentralized Partially Observable Markov Decision Problems( QDec-POMDPs) constitute a very general class of decision problems. They involve multiple agents, decentralized execution, sequential decision, partial observability, and uncertainty. Typically, joint policies, which prescribe to each agent an action to take depending on its full history of( local) actions and observations, are huge, which makes it difficult to store them onboard, at execution time, and also hampers the computation of joint plans. We propose and investigate a new representation for joint policies in QDec-POMDPs, which we call Multi-Agent Knowledge-Based Programs( MAKBPs) , and which uses epistemic logic for compactly representing conditions on histories. Contrary to standard representations, executing an MAKBP requires reasoning at execution time, but we show that MAKBPs can be exponentially more succinct than any reactive representation.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12085,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12085,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Laneformer: Object-Aware Row-Column Transformers for Lane Detection,Jianhua Han;Xiajun Deng;Xinyue Cai;Zhen Yang;Hang Xu;Chunjing Xu;Xiaodan Liang,"We present Laneformer, a conceptually simple yet powerful transformer-based architecture tailored for lane detection that is a long-standing research topic for visual perception in autonomous driving. The dominant paradigms rely on purely CNN-based architectures which often fail in incorporating relations of long-range lane points and global contexts induced by surrounding objects( e. g. , pedestrians, vehicles). Inspired by recent advances of the transformer encoder-decoder architecture in various vision tasks, we move forwards to design a new end-to-end Laneformer architecture that revolutionizes the conventional transformers into better capturing the shape and semantic characteristics of lanes, with minimal overhead in latency. First, coupling with deformable pixel-wise self-attention in the encoder, Laneformer presents two new row and column self-attention operations to efficiently mine point context along with the lane shapes. Second, motivated by the appearing objects would affect the decision of predicting lane segments, Laneformer further includes the detected object instances as extra inputs of multi-head attention blocks in the encoder and decoder to facilitate the lane point detection by sensing semantic contexts. Specifically, the bounding box locations of objects are added into Key module to provide interaction with each pixel and query while the ROI-aligned features are inserted into Value module. Extensive experiments demonstrate our Laneformer achieves state-of-the-art performances on CULane benchmark, in terms of 77. 1% F1 score. We hope our simple and effective Laneformer will serve as a strong baseline for future research in self-attention models for lane detection.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19961,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19961,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Large Scale Learning of Agent Rationality in Two-Player Zero-Sum Games,Chun Kai Ling;Fei Fang;J. Zico Kolter,"With the recent advances in solving large, zero-sum extensive form games, there is a growing interest in the inverse problem of inferring underlying game parameters given only access to agent actions. Although a recent work provides a powerful differentiable end-to-end learning frameworks which embed a game solver within a deep-learning framework, allowing unknown game parameters to be learned via backpropagation, this framework faces significant limitations when applied to boundedly rational human agents and large scale problems, leading to poor practicality. In this paper, we address these limitations and propose a framework that is applicable for more practical settings. First, seeking to learn the rationality of human agents in complex two-player zero-sum games, we draw upon well-known ideas in decision theory to obtain a concise and interpretable agent behavior model, and derive solvers and gradients for end-to-end learning. Second, to scale up to large, real-world scenarios, we propose an efficient first-order primal-dual method which exploits the structure of extensive-form games, yielding significantly faster computation for both game solving and gradient computation. When tested on randomly generated games, we report speedups of orders of magnitude over previous approaches. We also demonstrate the effectiveness of our model on both real-world one-player settings and synthetic data.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4567,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016104,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Layer Attack Unlearning: Fast and Accurate Machine Unlearning via Layer Level Attack and Knowledge Distillation,Hyunjune Kim;Sangyong Lee;Simon S. Woo,"Recently, serious concerns have been raised about the privacy issues related to training datasets in machine learning algorithms when including personal data. Various regulations in different countries, including the GDPR grant individuals to have personal data erased, known as \'91the right to be forgotten\'92 or \'91the right to erasure\'92. However, there has been less research on effectively and practically deleting the requested personal data from the training set while not jeopardizing the overall machine learning performance. In this work, we propose a fast and novel machine unlearning paradigm at the layer level called layer attack unlearning, which is highly accurate and fast compared to existing machine unlearning algorithms. We introduce the Partial-PGD algorithm to locate the samples to forget efficiently. In addition, we only use the last layer of the model inspired by the Forward-Forward algorithm for unlearning process. Lastly, we use Knowledge Distillation( KD) to reliably learn the decision boundaries from the teacher using soft label information to improve accuracy performance. We conducted extensive experiments with SOTA machine unlearning models and demonstrated the effectiveness of our approach for accuracy and end-to-end unlearning performance.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30118,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30118,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Layout-Aware Dreamer for Embodied Visual Referring Expression Grounding,Mingxiao Li;Zehao Wang;Tinne Tuytelaars;Marie-Francine Moens,"In this work, we study the problem of Embodied Referring Expression Grounding, where an agent needs to navigate in a previously unseen environment and localize a remote object described by a concise high-level natural language instruction. When facing such a situation, a human tends to imagine what the destination may look like and to explore the environment based on prior knowledge of the environmental layout, such as the fact that a bathroom is more likely to be found near a bedroom than a kitchen. We have designed an autonomous agent called Layout-aware Dreamer( LAD) , including two novel modules, that is, the Layout Learner and the Goal Dreamer to mimic this cognitive decision process. The Layout Learner learns to infer the room category distribution of neighboring unexplored areas along the path for coarse layout estimation, which effectively introduces layout common sense of room-to-room transitions to our agent. To learn an effective exploration of the environment, the Goal Dreamer imagines the destination beforehand. Our agent achieves new state-of-the-art performance on the public leaderboard of REVERIE dataset in challenging unseen test environments with improvement on navigation success rate( SR) by 4. 02% and remote grounding success( RGS) by 3. 43% comparing to previous previous state of the art. The code is released at https://github. com/zehao-wang/LAD.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25223,10.1609/aaai.v37i1.25223,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learn How to See: Collaborative Embodied Learning for Object Detection and Camera Adjusting,Lingdong Shen;Chunlei Huo;Nuo Xu;Chaowei Han;Zichen Wang,"Passive object detectors, trained on large-scale static datasets, often overlook the feedback from object detection to image acquisition. Embodied vision and active detection mitigate this issue by interacting with the environment. Nevertheless, the materialization of activeness hinges on resource-intensive data collection and annotation. To tackle these challenges, we propose a collaborative student-teacher framework. Technically, a replay buffer is built based on the trajectory data to encapsulate the relationship of state, action, and reward. In addition, the student network diverges from reinforcement learning by redefining sequential decision pathways using a GPT structure enriched with causal self-attention. Moreover, the teacher network establishes a subtle state-reward mapping based on adjacent benefit differences, providing reliable rewards for student adaptively self-tuning with the vast unlabeled replay buffer data. Additionally, an innovative yet straightforward benefit reference value is proposed within the teacher network, adding to its effectiveness and simplicity. Leveraging a flexible replay buffer and embodied collaboration between teacher and student, the framework learns to see before detection with shallower features and shorter inference steps. Experiments highlight significant advantages of our algorithm over state-of-the-art detectors. The code is released at https://github. com/lydonShen/STF.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28281,10.1609/aaai.v38i5.28281,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learn to Follow: Decentralized Lifelong Multi-Agent Pathfinding via Planning and Learning,Alexey Skrynnik;Anton Andreychuk;Maria Nesterova;Konstantin Yakovlev;Aleksandr Panov,"Multi-agent Pathfinding( MAPF) problem generally asks to find a set of conflict-free paths for a set of agents confined to a graph and is typically solved in a centralized fashion. Conversely, in this work, we investigate the decentralized MAPF setting, when the central controller that possesses all the information on the agents locations and goals is absent and the agents have to sequentially decide the actions on their own without having access to the full state of the environment. We focus on the practically important lifelong variant of MAPF, which involves continuously assigning new goals to the agents upon arrival to the previous ones. To address this complex problem, we propose a method that integrates two complementary approaches: planning with heuristic search and reinforcement learning through policy optimization. Planning is utilized to construct and re-plan individual paths. We enhance our planning algorithm with a dedicated technique tailored to avoid congestion and increase the throughput of the system. We employ reinforcement learning to discover the collision avoidance policies that effectively guide the agents along the paths. The policy is implemented as a neural network and is effectively trained without any reward-shaping or external guidance. We evaluate our method on a wide range of setups comparing it to the state-of-the-art solvers. The results show that our method consistently outperforms the learnable competitors, showing higher throughput and better ability to generalize to the maps that were unseen at the training stage. Moreover our solver outperforms a rule-based one in terms of throughput and is an order of magnitude faster than a state-of-the-art search-based solver. The code is available at https://github. com/AIRI-Institute/learn-to-follow.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29704,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29704,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Accurate and Interpretable Decision Rule Sets from Neural Networks,Litao Qiao;Weijia Wang;Bill Lin,"This paper proposes a new paradigm for learning a set of independent logical rules in disjunctive normal form as an interpretable model for classification. We consider the problem of learning an interpretable decision rule set as training a neural network in a specific, yet very simple two-layer architecture. Each neuron in the first layer directly maps to an interpretable if-then rule after training, and the output neuron in the second layer directly maps to a disjunction of the first layer rules to form the decision rule set. Our representation of neurons in this first rules layer enables us to encode both the positive and the negative association of features in a decision rule. State-of-the-art neural net training approaches can be leveraged for learning highly accurate classification models. Moreover, we propose a sparsity-based regularization approach to balance between classification accuracy and the simplicity of the derived rules. Our experimental results show that our method can generate more accurate decision rule sets than other state-of-the-art rule-learning algorithms with better accuracy-simplicity trade-offs. Further, when compared with uninterpretable black-box machine learning approaches such as random forests and full-precision deep neural networks, our approach can easily find interpretable decision rule sets that have comparable predictive performance.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16555,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16555,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Adaptive Forecasting Models from Irregularly Sampled Multivariate Clinical Data,Zitao Liu;Milos Hauskrecht,"Building accurate predictive models of clinical multivariate time series is crucial for understanding of the patient condition, the dynamics of a disease, and clinical decision making. A challenging aspect of this process is that the model should be flexible and adaptive to reflect well patient-specific temporal behaviors and this also in the case when the available patient-specific data are sparse and short span. To address this problem we propose and develop an adaptive two-stage forecasting approach for modeling multivariate, irregularly sampled clinical time series of varying lengths. The proposed model( 1) learns the population trend from a collection of time series for past patients;( 2) captures individual-specific short-term multivariate variability; and( 3) adapts by automatically adjusting its predictions based on new observations. The proposed forecasting model is evaluated on a real-world clinical time series dataset. The results demonstrate that our approach is superior on the prediction tasks for multivariate, irregularly sampled clinical time series, and it outperforms both the population based and patient-specific time series prediction models in terms of prediction accuracy.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10181,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10181,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Adversarial Markov Decision Processes with Delayed Feedback,Tal Lancewicki;Aviv Rosenberg;Yishay Mansour,"Reinforcement learning typically assumes that agents observe feedback for their actions immediately, but in many real-world applications( like recommendation systems) feedback is observed in delay. This paper studies online learning in episodic Markov decision processes( MDPs) with unknown transitions, adversarially changing costs and unrestricted delayed feedback. That is, the costs and trajectory of episode k are revealed to the learner only in the end of episode k+d\uc0\u7503 , where the delays d\u7503  are neither identical nor bounded, and are chosen by an oblivious adversary. We present novel algorithms based on policy optimization that achieve near-optimal high-probability regret of( K+D) \'b9\u5151 \'b2 under full-information feedback, where K is the number of episodes and D=\u8721 \u8342  d\u7503  is the total delay. Under bandit feedback, we prove similar( K+D) \'b9\u5151 \'b2 regret assuming the costs are stochastic, and( K+D) \'b2\u5151 \'b3 regret in the general case. We are the first to consider regret minimization in the important setting of MDPs with delayed feedback.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20690,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20690,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning and Reasoning for Robot Sequential Decision Making under Uncertainty,Saeid Amiri;Mohammad Shokrolah Shirazi;Shiqi Zhang,"Robots frequently face complex tasks that require more than one action, where sequential decision-making( sdm) capabilities become necessary. The key contribution of this work is a robot sdm framework, called lcorpp, that supports the simultaneous capabilities of supervised learning for passive state estimation, automated reasoning with declarative human knowledge, and planning under uncertainty toward achieving long-term goals. In particular, we use a hybrid reasoning paradigm to refine the state estimator, and provide informative priors for the probabilistic planner. In experiments, a mobile robot is tasked with estimating human intentions using their motion trajectories, declarative contextual knowledge, and human-robot interaction( dialog-based and motion-based). Results suggest that, in efficiency and accuracy, our framework performs better than its no-learning and no-reasoning counterparts in office environment.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5659,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5659,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning and Using Hand Abstraction Values for Parameterized Poker Squares,Todd Neller;Colin Messinger;Zuozhi Yang,"We describe the experimental development of an AI player that adapts to different point systems for Parameterized Poker Squares. After introducing the game and research competition challenge, we describe our static board evaluation utilizing learned evaluations of abstract partial Poker hands. Next, we evaluate various time management strategies and search algorithms. Finally, we show experimentally which of our design decisions most signicantly accounted for observed performance.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9859,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9859,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium Full Paper,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Coalition Structures with Games,Yixuan Even Xu;Chun Kai Ling;Fei Fang,"Coalitions naturally exist in many real-world systems involving multiple decision makers such as ridesharing, security, and online ad auctions, but the coalition structure among the agents is often unknown. We propose and study an important yet previously overseen problem -- Coalition Structure Learning( CSL) , where we aim to carefully design a series of games for the agents and infer the underlying coalition structure by observing their interactions in those games. We establish a lower bound on the sample complexity -- defined as the number of games needed to learn the structure -- of any algorithms for CSL and propose the Iterative Grouping( IG) algorithm for designing normal-form games to achieve the lower bound. We show that IG can be extended to other succinct games such as congestion games and graphical games. Moreover, we solve CSL in a more restrictive and practical setting: auctions. We show a variant of IG to solve CSL in the auction setting even if we cannot design the bidder valuations. Finally, we conduct experiments to evaluate IG in the auction setting and the results align with our theoretical analysis.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28856,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28856,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Datum-Wise Sampling Frequency for Energy-Efficient Human Activity Recognition,Weihao Cheng;Sarah Erfani;Rui Zhang;Ramamohanarao Kotagiri,"Continuous Human Activity Recognition( HAR) is an important application of smart mobile/wearable systems for providing dynamic assistance to users. However, HAR in real-time requires continuous sampling of data using built-in sensors( e. g. , accelerometer) , which significantly increases the energy cost and shortens the operating span. Reducing sampling rate can save energy but causes low recognition accuracy. Therefore, choosing adaptive sampling frequency that balances accuracy and energy efficiency becomes a critical problem in HAR. In this paper, we formalize the problem as minimizing both classification error and energy cost by choosing dynamically appropriate sampling rates. We propose Datum-Wise Frequency Selection( DWFS) to solve the problem via a continuous state Markov Decision Process( MDP). A policy function is learned from the MDP, which selects the best frequency for sampling an incoming data entity by exploiting a datum related state of the system. We propose a method for alternative learning the parameters of an activity classification model and the MDP that improves both the accuracy and the energy efficiency. We evaluate DWFS with three real-world HAR datasets, and the results show that DWFS statistically outperforms the state-of-the-arts regarding a combined measurement of accuracy and energy efficiency.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11862,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11862,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Machine Learning Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Deep Hierarchical Features with Spatial Regularization for One-Class Facial Expression Recognition,Bingjun Luo;Junjie Zhu;Tianyu Yang;Sicheng Zhao;Chao Hu;Xibin Zhao;Yue Gao,"Existing methods on facial expression recognition( FER) are mainly trained in the setting when multi-class data is available. However, to detect the alien expressions that are absent during training, this type of methods cannot work. To address this problem, we develop a Hierarchical Spatial One Class Facial Expression Recognition Network( HS-OCFER) which can construct the decision boundary of a given expression class( called normal class) by training on only one-class data. Specifically, HS-OCFER consists of three novel components. First, hierarchical bottleneck modules are proposed to enrich the representation power of the model and extract detailed feature hierarchy from different levels. Second, multi-scale spatial regularization with facial geometric information is employed to guide the feature extraction towards emotional facial representations and prevent the model from overfitting extraneous disturbing factors. Third, compact intra-class variation is adopted to separate the normal class from alien classes in the decision space. Extensive evaluations on 4 typical FER datasets from both laboratory and wild scenarios show that our method consistently outperforms state-of-the-art One-Class Classification( OCC) approaches.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25749,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25749,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Disentangled Representation for Fair Facial Attribute Classification via Fairness-aware Information Alignment,Sungho Park;Sunhee Hwang;Dohyung Kim;Hyeran Byun,"Although AI systems archive a great success in various societal fields, there still exists a challengeable issue of outputting discriminatory results with respect to protected attributes( e. g. , gender and age). The popular approach to solving the issue is to remove protected attribute information in the decision process. However, this approach has a limitation that beneficial information for target tasks may also be eliminated. To overcome the limitation, we propose Fairness-aware Disentangling Variational Auto-Encoder( FD-VAE) that disentangles data representation into three subspaces: 1) Target Attribute Latent( TAL) , 2) Protected Attribute Latent( PAL) , 3) Mutual Attribute Latent( MAL). On top of that, we propose a decorrelation loss that aligns the overall information into each subspace, instead of removing the protected attribute information. After learning the representation, we re-encode MAL to include only target information and combine it with TAL to perform downstream tasks. In our experiments on CelebA and UTK Face datasets, we show that the proposed method mitigates unfairness in facial attribute classification tasks with respect to gender and age. Ours outperforms previous methods by large margins on two standard fairness metrics, equal opportunity and equalized odds.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16341,10.1609/aaai.v35i3.16341,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Efficient and Robust Multi-Agent Communication via Graph Information Bottleneck,Shifei Ding;Wei Du;Ling Ding;Lili Guo;Jian Zhang,"Efficient communication learning among agents has been shown crucial for cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning( MARL) , as it can promote the action coordination of agents and ultimately improve performance. Graph neural network( GNN) provide a general paradigm for communication learning, which consider agents and communication channels as nodes and edges in a graph, with the action selection corresponding to node labeling. Under such paradigm, an agent aggregates information from neighbor agents, which can reduce uncertainty in local decision-making and induce implicit action coordination. However, this communication paradigm is vulnerable to adversarial attacks and noise, and how to learn robust and efficient communication under perturbations has largely not been studied. To this end, this paper introduces a novel Multi-Agent communication mechanism via Graph Information bottleneck( MAGI) , which can optimally balance the robustness and expressiveness of the message representation learned by agents. This communication mechanism is aim at learning the minimal sufficient message representation for an agent by maximizing the mutual information( MI) between the message representation and the selected action, and simultaneously constraining the MI between the message representation and the agent feature. Empirical results demonstrate that MAGI is more robust and efficient than state-of-the-art GNN-based MARL methods.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29682,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29682,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Ensembles of Cutset Networks,Tahrima Rahman;Vibhav Gogate,"Cutset networks \'97 OR( decision) trees that have Bayesian networks whose treewidth is bounded by one at each leaf \'97 are a new class of tractable probabilistic models that admit fast, polynomial-time inference and learning algorithms. This is unlike other state-of-the-art tractable models such as thin junction trees, arithmetic circuits and sum-product networks in which inference is fast and efficient but learning can be notoriously slow. In this paper, we take advantage of this unique property to develop fast algorithms for learning ensembles of cutset networks. Specifically, we consider generalized additive mixtures of cutset networks and develop sequential boosting-based and parallel bagging-based approaches for learning them from data. We demonstrate, via a thorough experimental evaluation, that our new algorithms are superior to competing approaches in terms of test-set log-likelihood score and learning time.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10428,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10428,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Fair Naive Bayes Classifiers by Discovering and Eliminating Discrimination Patterns,YooJung Choi;Golnoosh Farnadi;Behrouz Babaki;Guy Van den Broeck,"As machine learning is increasingly used to make real-world decisions, recent research efforts aim to define and ensure fairness in algorithmic decision making. Existing methods often assume a fixed set of observable features to define individuals, but lack a discussion of certain features not being observed at test time. In this paper, we study fairness of naive Bayes classifiers, which allow partial observations. In particular, we introduce the notion of a discrimination pattern, which refers to an individual receiving different classifications depending on whether some sensitive attributes were observed. Then a model is considered fair if it has no such pattern. We propose an algorithm to discover and mine for discrimination patterns in a naive Bayes classifier, and show how to learn maximum-likelihood parameters subject to these fairness constraints. Our approach iteratively discovers and eliminates discrimination patterns until a fair model is learned. An empirical evaluation on three real-world datasets demonstrates that we can remove exponentially many discrimination patterns by only adding a small fraction of them as constraints.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6565,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6565,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Fair Policies for Multi-Stage Selection Problems from Observational Data,Zhuangzhuang Jia;Grani A. Hanasusanto;Phebe Vayanos;Weijun Xie,"We consider the problem of learning fair policies for multi-stage selection problems from observational data. This problem arises in several high-stakes domains such as company hiring, loan approval, or bail decisions where outcomes( e. g. , career success, loan repayment, recidivism) are only observed for those selected. We propose a multi-stage framework that can be augmented with various fairness constraints, such as demographic parity or equal opportunity. This problem is a highly intractable infinite chance-constrained program involving the unknown joint distribution of covariates and outcomes. Motivated by the potential impact of selection decisions on people\'92s lives and livelihoods, we propose to focus on interpretable linear selection rules. Leveraging tools from causal inference and sample average approximation, we obtain an asymptotically consistent solution to this selection problem by solving a mixed binary conic optimization problem, which can be solved using standard off-the-shelf solvers. We conduct extensive computational experiments on a variety of datasets adapted from the UCI repository on which we show that our proposed approaches can achieve an 11. 6% improvement in precision and a 38% reduction in the measure of unfairness compared to the existing selection policy.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30112,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30112,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Learning for Decentralized Control of Multiagent Systems in Large, Partially-Observable Stochastic Environments",Miao Liu;Christopher Amato;Emily Anesta;John Griffith;Jonathan How,"Decentralized partially observable Markov decision processes( Dec-POMDPs) provide a general framework for multiagent sequential decision-making under uncertainty. Although Dec-POMDPs are typically intractable to solve for real-world problems, recent research on macro-actions( i. e. , temporally-extended actions) has significantly increased the size of problems that can be solved. However, current methods assume the underlying Dec-POMDP model is known a priori or a full simulator is available during planning time. To accommodate more realistic scenarios, when such information is not available, this paper presents a policy-based reinforcement learning approach, which learns the agent policies based solely on trajectories generated by previous interaction with the environment( e. g. , demonstrations). We show that our approach is able to generate valid macro-action controllers and develop an expectationmaximization( EM) algorithm( called Policy-based EM or PoEM) , which has convergence guarantees for batch learning. Our experiments show PoEM is a scalable learning method that can learn optimal policies and improve upon hand-coded \'93expert\'94 solutions.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10135,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10135,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning from eXtreme Bandit Feedback,Romain Lopez;Inderjit S. Dhillon;Michael I. Jordan,"We study the problem of batch learning from bandit feedback in the setting of extremely large action spaces. Learning from extreme bandit feedback is ubiquitous in recommendation systems, in which billions of decisions are made over sets consisting of millions of choices in a single day, yielding massive observational data. In these large-scale real-world applications, supervised learning frameworks such as eXtreme Multi-label Classification( XMC) are widely used despite the fact that they incur significant biases due to the mismatch between bandit feedback and supervised labels. Such biases can be mitigated by importance sampling techniques, but these techniques suffer from impractical variance when dealing with a large number of actions. In this paper, we introduce a selective importance sampling estimator( sIS) that operates in a significantly more favorable bias-variance regime. The sIS estimator is obtained by performing importance sampling on the conditional expectation of the reward with respect to a small subset of actions for each instance( a form of Rao-Blackwellization). We employ this estimator in a novel algorithmic procedure---named Policy Optimization for eXtreme Models( POXM) ---for learning from bandit feedback on XMC tasks. In POXM, the selected actions for the sIS estimator are the top-p actions of the logging policy, where p is adjusted from the data and is significantly smaller than the size of the action space. We use a supervised-to-bandit conversion on three XMC datasets to benchmark our POXM method against three competing methods: BanditNet, a previously applied partial matching pruning strategy, and a supervised learning baseline. Whereas BanditNet sometimes improves marginally over the logging policy, our experiments show that POXM systematically and significantly improves over all baselines.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17058,10.1609/aaai.v35i10.17058,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Future Classifiers without Additional Data,Atsutoshi Kumagai;Tomoharu Iwata,"We propose probabilistic models for predicting future classifiers given labeled data with timestamps collected until the current time. In some applications, the decision boundary changes over time. For example, in spam mail classification, spammers continuously create new spam mails to overcome spam filters, and therefore, the decision boundary that classifies spam or non-spam can vary. Existing methods require additional labeled and/or unlabeled data to learn a time-evolving decision boundary. However, collecting these data can be expensive or impossible. By incorporating time-series models to capture the dynamics of a decision boundary, the proposed model can predict future classifiers without additional data. We developed two learning algorithms for the proposed model on the basis of variational Bayesian inference. The effectiveness of the proposed method is demonstrated with experiments using synthetic and real-world data sets.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10208,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10208,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning GAI-Decomposable Utility Models for Multiattribute Decision Making,Margot Herin;Patrice Perny;Nataliya Sokolovska,"We propose an approach to learn a multiattribute utility function to model, explain or predict the value system of a Decision Maker. The main challenge of the modelling task is to describe human values and preferences in the presence of interacting attributes while keeping the utility function as simple as possible. We focus on the generalized additive decomposable utility model which allows interactions between attributes while preserving some additive decomposability of the evaluation model. We present a learning approach able to identify the factors of interacting attributes and to learn the utility functions defined on these factors. This approach relies on the determination of a sparse representation of the ANOVA decomposition of the multiattribute utility function using multiple kernel learning. It applies to both continuous and discrete attributes. Numerical tests are performed to demonstrate the practical efficiency of the learning approach.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30024,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30024,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Game-Theoretic Models of Multiagent Trajectories Using Implicit Layers,Philipp Geiger;Christoph-Nikolas Straehle,"For prediction of interacting agents trajectories, we propose an end-to-end trainable architecture that hybridizes neural nets with game-theoretic reasoning, has interpretable intermediate representations, and transfers to downstream decision making. It uses a net that reveals preferences from the agents past joint trajectory, and a differentiable implicit layer that maps these preferences to local Nash equilibria, forming the modes of the predicted future trajectory. Additionally, it learns an equilibrium refinement concept. For tractability, we introduce a new class of continuous potential games and an equilibrium-separating partition of the action space. We provide theoretical results for explicit gradients and soundness. In experiments, we evaluate our approach on two real-world data sets, where we predict highway drivers merging trajectories, and on a simple decision-making transfer task.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16628,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16628,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track Focus Area on Neuro-Symbolic AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Human Driving Behaviors with Sequential Causal Imitation Learning,Kangrui Ruan;Xuan Di,"Learning human driving behaviors is an efficient approach for self-driving vehicles. Traditional Imitation Learning( IL) methods assume that the expert demonstrations follow Markov Decision Processes( MDPs). However, in reality, this assumption does not always hold true. Spurious correlation may exist through the paths of historical variables because of the existence of unobserved confounders. Accounting for the latent causal relationships from unobserved variables to outcomes, this paper proposes Sequential Causal Imitation Learning( SeqCIL) for imitating driver behaviors. We develop a sequential causal template that generalizes the default MDP settings to one with Unobserved Confounders( MDPUC-HD). Then we develop a sufficient graphical criterion to determine when ignoring causality leads to poor performances in MDPUC-HD. Through the framework of Adversarial Imitation Learning, we develop a procedure to imitate the expert policy by blocking \uc0\u960 -backdoor paths at each time step. Our methods are evaluated on a synthetic dataset and a real-world highway driving dataset, both demonstrating that the proposed procedure significantly outperforms non-causal imitation learning methods.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20382,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20382,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) Of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Latent Opinions for Aspect-level Sentiment Classification,Bailin Wang;Wei Lu,"Aspect-level sentiment classification aims at detecting the sentiment expressed towards a particular target in a sentence. Based on the observation that the sentiment polarity is often related to specific spans in the given sentence, it is possible to make use of such information for better classification. On the other hand, such information can also serve as justifications associated with the predictions. We propose a segmentation attention based LSTM model which can effectively capture the structural dependencies between the target and the sentiment expressions with a linear-chain conditional random field( CRF) layer. The model simulates humans process of inferring sentiment information when reading: when given a target, humans tend to search for surrounding relevant text spans in the sentence before making an informed decision on the underlying sentiment information. We perform sentiment classification tasks on publicly available datasets on online reviews across different languages from SemEval tasks and social comments from Twitter. Extensive experiments show that our model achieves the state-of-the-art performance while extracting interpretable sentiment expressions.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12020,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12020,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Latent Sentiment Scopes for Entity-Level Sentiment Analysis,Hao Li;Wei Lu,"In this paper, we focus on the task of extracting named entities together with their associated sentiment information in a joint manner. Our key observation in such an entity-level sentiment analysis( a. k. a. targeted sentiment analysis) task is that there exists a sentiment scope within which each named entity is embedded, which largely decides the sentiment information associated with the entity. However, such sentiment scopes are typically not explicitly annotated in the data, and their lengths can be unbounded. Motivated by this, unlike traditional approaches that cast this problem as a simple sequence labeling task, we propose a novel approach that can explicitly model the latent sentiment scopes. Our experiments on the standard datasets demonstrate that our approach is able to achieve better results compared to existing approaches based on conventional conditional random fields( CRFs) and a more recent work based on neural networks.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11016,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11016,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Text Mining,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Losses for Strategic Classification,Tosca Lechner;Ruth Urner,"Strategic classification, i. e. classification under possible strategic manipulations of features, has received a lot of attention from both the machine learning and the game theory community. Most works focus on analysing properties of the optimal decision rule under such manipulations. In our work we take a learning theoretic perspective, focusing on the sample complexity needed to learn a good decision rule which is robust to strategic manipulation. We perform this analysis by introducing a novel loss function, the strategic manipulation loss, which takes into account both the accuracy of the final decision rule and its vulnerability to manipulation. We analyse the sample complexity for a known graph of possible manipulations in terms of the complexity of the function class and the manipulation graph. Additionally, we initialize the study of learning under unknown manipulation capabilities of the involved agents. Using techniques from transfer learning theory, we define a similarity measure for manipulation graphs and show that learning outcomes are robust with respect to small changes in the manipulation graph. Lastly, we analyse the( sample complexity of) learning of the manipulation capability of agents with respect to this similarity measure, providing novel guarantees for strategic classification with respect to an unknown manipulation graph.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20696,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20696,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Models of Sequential Decision-Making with Partial Specification of Agent Behavior,Vaibhav V. Unhelkar;Julie A. Shah,"Artificial agents that interact with other( human or artificial) agents require models in order to reason about those other agents\'92 behavior. In addition to the predictive utility of these models, maintaining a model that is aligned with an agent\'92s true generative model of behavior is critical for effective human-agent interaction. In applications wherein observations and partial specification of the agent\'92s behavior are available, achieving model alignment is challenging for a variety of reasons. For one, the agent\'92s decision factors are often not completely known; further, prior approaches that rely upon observations of agents\'92 behavior alone can fail to recover the true model, since multiple models can explain observed behavior equally well. To achieve better model alignment, we provide a novel approach capable of learning aligned models that conform to partial knowledge of the agent\'92s behavior. Central to our approach are a factored model of behavior( AMM) , along with Bayesian nonparametric priors, and an inference approach capable of incorporating partial specifications as constraints for model learning. We evaluate our approach in experiments and demonstrate improvements in metrics of model alignment.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4098,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012522,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Non-Linear Dynamics of Decision Boundaries for Maintaining Classification Performance,Atsutoshi Kumagai;Tomoharu Iwata,"We propose a method that involves a probabilistic model for learning future classifiers for tasks in which decision boundaries nonlinearly change over time. In certain applications, such as spam-mail classification, the decision boundary dynamically changes over time. Accordingly, the performance of the classifiers will deteriorate quickly unless the classifiers are updated using additional data. However, collecting such data can be expensive or impossible. The proposed model alleviates this deterioration in performance without additional data by modeling the non-linear dynamics of the decision boundary using Gaussian processes. The method also involves our developed learning algorithm for our model based on empirical variational Bayesian inference by which uncertainty of dynamics can be incorporated for future classification. The effectiveness of the proposed method was demonstrated through experiments using synthetic and real-world data sets.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10830,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10830,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Optimal and Fair Decision Trees for Non-Discriminative Decision-Making,Sina Aghaei;Mohammad Javad Azizi;Phebe Vayanos,"In recent years, automated data-driven decision-making systems have enjoyed a tremendous success in a variety of fields( e. g. , to make product recommendations, or to guide the production of entertainment). More recently, these algorithms are increasingly being used to assist socially sensitive decisionmaking( e. g. , to decide who to admit into a degree program or to prioritize individuals for public housing). Yet, these automated tools may result in discriminative decision-making in the sense that they may treat individuals unfairly or unequally based on membership to a category or a minority, resulting in disparate treatment or disparate impact and violating both moral and ethical standards. This may happen when the training dataset is itself biased( e. g. , if individuals belonging to a particular group have historically been discriminated upon). However, it may also happen when the training dataset is unbiased, if the errors made by the system affect individuals belonging to a category or minority differently( e. g. , if misclassification rates for Blacks are higher than for Whites). In this paper, we unify the definitions of unfairness across classification and regression. We propose a versatile mixed-integer optimization framework for learning optimal and fair decision trees and variants thereof to prevent disparate treatment and/or disparate impact as appropriate. This translates to a flexible schema for designing fair and interpretable policies suitable for socially sensitive decision-making. We conduct extensive computational studies that show that our framework improves the state-of-the-art in the field( which typically relies on heuristics) to yield non-discriminative decisions at lower cost to overall accuracy.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3943,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011418,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Optimal Decision Trees Using Caching Branch-and-Bound Search,Ga\'ebl Aglin;Siegfried Nijssen;Pierre Schaus,"Several recent publications have studied the use of Mixed Integer Programming( MIP) for finding an optimal decision tree, that is, the best decision tree under formal requirements on accuracy, fairness or interpretability of the predictive model. These publications used MIP to deal with the hard computational challenge of finding such trees. In this paper, we introduce a new efficient algorithm, DL8. 5, for finding optimal decision trees, based on the use of itemset mining techniques. We show that this new approach outperforms earlier approaches with several orders of magnitude, for both numerical and discrete data, and is generic as well. The key idea underlying this new approach is the use of a cache of itemsets in combination with branch-and-bound search; this new type of cache also stores results for parts of the search space that have been traversed partially.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5711,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5711,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Resource Allocation and Pricing for Cloud Profit Maximization,Bingqian Du;Chuan Wu;Zhiyi Huang,"Cloud computing has been widely adopted to support various computation services. A fundamental problem faced by cloud providers is how to efficiently allocate resources upon user requests and price the resource usage, in order to maximize resource efficiency and hence provider profit. Existing studies establish detailed performance models of cloud resource usage, and propose offline or online algorithms to decide allocation and pricing. Differently, we adopt a blackbox approach, and leverage model-free Deep Reinforcement Learning( DRL) to capture dynamics of cloud users and better characterize inherent connections between an optimal allocation/pricing policy and the states of the dynamic cloud system. The goal is to learn a policy that maximizes net profit of the cloud provider through trial and error, which is better than decisions made on explicit performance models. We combine long short-term memory( LSTM) units with fully-connected neural networks in our DRL to deal with online user arrivals, and adjust the output and update methods of basic DRL algorithms to address both resource allocation and pricing. Evaluation based on real-world datasets shows that our DRL approach outperforms basic DRL algorithms and state-of-theart white-box online cloud resource allocation/pricing algorithms significantly, in terms of both profit and the number of accepted users.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4749,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017570,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Revenue Maximization Using Posted Prices for Stochastic Strategic Patient Buyers,Eitan-Hai Mashiah;Idan Attias;Yishay Mansour,"We consider a seller faced with buyers which have the ability to delay their decision, which we call patience. Each buyers type is composed of value and patience, and it is sampled i. i. d. from a distribution. The seller, using posted prices, would like to maximize her revenue from selling to the buyer. In this paper, we formalize this setting and characterize the resulting Stackelberg equilibrium, where the seller first commits to her strategy, and then the buyers best respond. Following this, we show how to compute both the optimal pure and mixed strategies. We then consider a learning setting, where the seller does not have access to the distribution over buyers types. Our main results are the following. We derive a sample complexity bound for the learning of an approximate optimal pure strategy, by computing the fat-shattering dimension of this setting. Moreover, we provide a general sample complexity bound for the approximate optimal mixed strategy. We also consider an online setting and derive a vanishing regret bound with respect to both the optimal pure strategy and the optimal mixed strategy.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26091,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26091,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Rewards From Linguistic Feedback,Theodore R. Sumers;Mark K. Ho;Robert D. Hawkins;Karthik Narasimhan;Thomas L. Griffiths,"We explore unconstrained natural language feedback as a learning signal for artificial agents. Humans use rich and varied language to teach, yet most prior work on interactive learning from language assumes a particular form of input( e. g. , commands). We propose a general framework which does not make this assumption, instead using aspect-based sentiment analysis to decompose feedback into sentiment over the features of a Markov decision process. We then infer the teachers reward function by regressing the sentiment on the features, an analogue of inverse reinforcement learning. To evaluate our approach, we first collect a corpus of teaching behavior in a cooperative task where both teacher and learner are human. We implement three artificial learners: sentiment-based literal and pragmatic models, and an inference network trained end-to-end to predict rewards. We then re-run our initial experiment, pairing human teachers with these artificial learners. All three models successfully learn from interactive human feedback. The inference network approaches the performance of the literal sentiment model, while the pragmatic model nears human performance. Our work provides insight into the information structure of naturalistic linguistic feedback as well as methods to leverage it for reinforcement learning.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16749,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16749,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Saliency-Free Model with Generic Features for Weakly-Supervised Semantic Segmentation,Wenfeng Luo;Meng Yang,"Current weakly-supervised semantic segmentation methods often estimate initial supervision from class activation maps( CAM) , which produce sparse discriminative object seeds and rely on image saliency to provide background cues when only class labels are used. To eliminate the demand of extra data for training saliency detector, we propose to discover class pattern inherent in the lower layer convolution features, which are scarcely explored as in previous CAM methods. Specifically, we first project the convolution features into a low-dimension space and then decide on a decision boundary to generate class-agnostic maps for each semantic category that exists in the image. Features from Lower layer are more generic, thus capable of generating proxy ground-truth with more accurate and integral objects. Experiments on the PASCAL VOC 2012 dataset show that the proposed saliency-free method outperforms the previous approaches under the same weakly-supervised setting and achieves superior segmentation results, which are 64. 5% on the validation set and 64. 6% on the test set concerning mIoU metric.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6842,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6842,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Small Decision Trees for Data of Low Rank-Width,Konrad K. Dabrowski;Eduard Eiben;Sebastian Ordyniak;Giacomo Paesani;Stefan Szeider,We consider the NP-hard problem of finding a smallest decision tree representing a classification instance in terms of a partially defined Boolean function. Small decision trees are desirable to provide an interpretable model for the given data. We show that the problem is fixed-parameter tractable when parameterized by the rank-width of the incidence graph of the given classification instance. Our algorithm proceeds by dynamic programming using an NLC decomposition obtained from a rank-width decomposition. The key to the algorithm is a succinct representation of partial solutions. This allows us to limit the space and time requirements for each dynamic programming step in terms of the parameter.,2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28916,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28916,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Small Decision Trees with Few Outliers: A Parameterized Perspective,Harmender Gahlawat;Meirav Zehavi,"Decision trees is a fundamental tool in machine learning for representing, classifying, and generalizing data. It is desirable to construct ``small decision trees, by minimizing either the size( s) or the depth( d) of the decision tree( DT). Recently, the parameterized complexity of Decision Tree Learning has attracted a lot of attention. We consider a generalization of Decision Tree Learning where given a classification instance E and an integer t, the task is to find a ``small DT that disagrees with E in at most t examples. We consider two problems: DTSO and DTDO, where the goal is to construct a DT minimizing s and d, respectively. We first establish that both DTSO and DTDO are W[1]-hard when parameterized by s+y and d+y, respectively, where y is the maximum number of features in which two differently labeled examples can differ. We complement this result by showing that these problems become FPT if we include the parameter t. We also consider the kernelization complexity of these problems and establish several positive and negative results for both DTSO and DTDO.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29098,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29098,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Space-Time Crop Yield Patterns with Zigzag Persistence-Based LSTM: Toward More Reliable Digital Agriculture Insurance,Tian Jiang;Meichen Huang;Ignacio Segovia-Dominguez;Nathaniel Newlands;Yulia R. Gel,"More than US$ 27 billion is estimated to have been paid-out in farm support in USA alone since 1991 in response to climate change impacts on agriculture, with costs likely continuing to rise. With the wider adoption of precision agriculture - an agriculture management strategy that involves gathering, processing and analyzing temporal, spatial and individual data - in both developed and developing countries, there is an increasing opportunity to harness accumulating, shareable, big data using artificial intelligence( AI) methods, collected from weather stations, field sensor networks, Internet-of-Things devices, unmanned aerial vehicles, and earth observational satellites. This requires smart algorithms tailored to agricultural data types, integrated into digital solutions that are viable, flexible, and scalable for wide deployment for a wide variety of agricultural users and decision-makers. We discuss a novel AI approach that addresses the real-world problem of developing a viable solution for reliably, timely, and cost-effectively forecasting crop status across large agricultural regions using Earth observational information in near-real-time. Our approach is based on extracting time-conditioned topological features which characterize complex spatio-temporal dependencies between crop production regions and integrating such topological signatures into Long Short Term Memory( LSTM). We discuss utility and limitations of the resulting zigzag persistence-based LSTM( ZZTop-LSTM) as a new tool for developing more informed crop insurance rate-making and accurate tracking of changing risk exposures and vulnerabilities within insurance risk areas.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21524,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21524,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning Structured Representation for Text Classification via Reinforcement Learning,Tianyang Zhang;Minlie Huang;Li Zhao,"Representation learning is a fundamental problem in natural language processing. This paper studies how to learn a structured representation for text classification. Unlike most existing representation models that either use no structure or rely on pre-specified structures, we propose a reinforcement learning( RL) method to learn sentence representation by discovering optimized structures automatically. We demonstrate two attempts to build structured representation: Information Distilled LSTM( ID-LSTM) and Hierarchically Structured LSTM( HS-LSTM). ID-LSTM selects only important, task-relevant words, and HS-LSTM discovers phrase structures in a sentence. Structure discovery in the two representation models is formulated as a sequential decision problem: current decision of structure discovery affects following decisions, which can be addressed by policy gradient RL. Results show that our method can learn task-friendly representations by identifying important words or task-relevant structures without explicit structure annotations, and thus yields competitive performance.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12047,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12047,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Text Mining,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Learning the Preferences of Ignorant, Inconsistent Agents",Owain Evans;Andreas Stuhlmueller;Noah Goodman,"An important use of machine learning is to learn what people value. What posts or photos should a user be shown? Which jobs or activities would a person find rewarding? In each case, observations of peoples past choices can inform our inferences about their likes and preferences. If we assume that choices are approximately optimal according to some utility function, we can treat preference inference as Bayesian inverse planning. That is, given a prior on utility functions and some observed choices, we invert an optimal decision-making process to infer a posterior distribution on utility functions. However, people often deviate from approximate optimality. They have false beliefs, their planning is sub-optimal, and their choices may be temporally inconsistent due to hyperbolic discounting and other biases. We demonstrate how to incorporate these deviations into algorithms for preference inference by constructing generative models of planning for agents who are subject to false beliefs and time inconsistency. We explore the inferences these models make about preferences, beliefs, and biases. We present a behavioral experiment in which human subjects perform preference inference given the same observations of choices as our model. Results show that human subjects( like our model) explain choices in terms of systematic deviations from optimal behavior and suggest that they take such deviations into account when inferring preferences.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10010,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10010,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Cognitive Modeling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Address Health Inequality in the United States with a Bayesian Decision Network,Tavpritesh Sethi;Anant Mittal;Shubham Maheshwari;Samarth Chugh,"Life-expectancy is a complex outcome driven by genetic, socio-demographic, environmental and geographic factors. Increasing socio-economic and health disparities in the United States are propagating the longevity-gap, making it a cause for concern. Earlier studies have probed individual factors but an integrated picture to reveal quantifiable actions has been missing. There is a growing concern about a further widening of healthcare inequality caused by Artificial Intelligence( AI) due to differential access to AI-driven services. Hence, it is imperative to explore and exploit the potential of AI for illuminating biases and enabling transparent policy decisions for positive social and health impact. In this work, we reveal actionable interventions for decreasing the longevitygap in the United States by analyzing a County-level data resource containing healthcare, socio-economic, behavioral, education and demographic features. We learn an ensembleaveraged structure, draw inferences using the joint probability distribution and extend it to a Bayesian Decision Network for identifying policy actions. We draw quantitative estimates for the impact of diversity, preventive-care quality and stablefamilies within the unified framework of our decision network. Finally, we make this analysis and dashboard available as an interactive web-application for enabling users and policy-makers to validate our reported findings and to explore the impact of ones beyond reported in this work.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3849,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.3301710,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Technical Track: AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Branch in Mixed Integer Programming,Elias Khalil;Pierre Le Bodic;Le Song;George Nemhauser;Bistra Dilkina,"The design of strategies for branching in Mixed Integer Programming( MIP) is guided by cycles of parameter tuning and offline experimentation on an extremely heterogeneous testbed, using the average performance. Once devised, these strategies( and their parameter settings) are essentially input-agnostic. To address these issues, we propose a machine learning( ML) framework for variable branching in MIP. Our method observes the decisions made by Strong Branching( SB) , a time-consuming strategy that produces small search trees, collecting features that characterize the candidate branching variables at each node of the tree. Based on the collected data, we learn an easy-to-evaluate surrogate function that mimics the SB strategy, by means of solving a learning-to-rank problem, common in ML. The learned ranking function is then used for branching. The learning is instance-specific, and is performed on-the-fly while executing a branch-and-bound search to solve the MIP instance. Experiments on benchmark instances indicate that our method produces significantly smaller search trees than existing heuristics, and is competitive with a state-of-the-art commercial solver.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10080,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10080,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Compose Task-Specific Tree Structures,Jihun Choi;Kang Min Yoo;Sang-goo Lee,"For years, recursive neural networks( RvNNs) have been shown to be suitable for representing text into fixed-length vectors and achieved good performance on several natural language processing tasks. However, the main drawback of RvNNs is that they require structured input, which makes data preparation and model implementation hard. In this paper, we propose Gumbel Tree-LSTM, a novel tree-structured long short-term memory architecture that learns how to compose task-specific tree structures only from plain text data efficiently. Our model uses Straight-Through Gumbel-Softmax estimator to decide the parent node among candidates dynamically and to calculate gradients of the discrete decision. We evaluate the proposed model on natural language inference and sentiment analysis, and show that our model outperforms or is at least comparable to previous models. We also find that our model converges significantly faster than other models.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11975,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11975,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: NLP and Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Defer with Limited Expert Predictions,Patrick Hemmer;Lukas Thede;Michael V\'f6ssing;Johannes Jakubik;Niklas K\'fchl,"Recent research suggests that combining AI models with a human expert can exceed the performance of either alone. The combination of their capabilities is often realized by learning to defer algorithms that enable the AI to learn to decide whether to make a prediction for a particular instance or defer it to the human expert. However, to accurately learn which instances should be deferred to the human expert, a large number of expert predictions that accurately reflect the experts capabilities are required\'97in addition to the ground truth labels needed to train the AI. This requirement shared by many learning to defer algorithms hinders their adoption in scenarios where the responsible expert regularly changes or where acquiring a sufficient number of expert predictions is costly. In this paper, we propose a three-step approach to reduce the number of expert predictions required to train learning to defer algorithms. It encompasses( 1) the training of an embedding model with ground truth labels to generate feature representations that serve as a basis for( 2) the training of an expertise predictor model to approximate the experts capabilities. ( 3) The expertise predictor generates artificial expert predictions for instances not yet labeled by the expert, which are required by the learning to defer algorithms. We evaluate our approach on two public datasets. One with synthetically generated human experts and another from the medical domain containing real-world radiologists predictions. Our experiments show that the approach allows the training of various learning to defer algorithms with a minimal number of human expert predictions. Furthermore, we demonstrate that even a small number of expert predictions per class is sufficient for these algorithms to exceed the performance the AI and the human expert can achieve individually.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25742,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25742,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Resolve Conflicts for Multi-Agent Path Finding with Conflict-Based Search,Taoan Huang;Sven Koenig;Bistra Dilkina,"Conflict-Based Search( CBS) is a state-of-the-art algorithm for multi-agent path finding. On the high level, CBS repeatedly detects conflicts and resolves one of them by splitting the current problem into two subproblems. Previous work chooses the conflict to resolve by categorizing conflicts into three classes and always picking one from the highest-priority class. In this work, we propose an oracle for conflict selection that results in smaller search tree sizes than the one used in previous work. However, the computation of the oracle is slow. Thus, we propose a machine-learning( ML) framework for conflict selection that observes the decisions made by the oracle and learns a conflict-selection strategy represented by a linear ranking function that imitates the oracles decisions accurately and quickly. Experiments on benchmark maps indicate that our approach, ML-guided CBS, significantly improves the success rates, search tree sizes and runtimes of the current state-of-the-art CBS solver.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17341,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17341,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Select from Multiple Options,Jiangshu Du;Wenpeng Yin;Congying Xia;Philip S. Yu,"Many NLP tasks can be regarded as a selection problem from a set of options, such as classification tasks, multi-choice question answering, etc. Textual entailment( TE) has been shown as the state-of-the-art( SOTA) approach to dealing with those selection problems. TE treats input texts as premises( P) , options as hypotheses( H) , then handles the selection problem by modeling( P, H) pairwise. Two limitations: first, the pairwise modeling is unaware of other options, which is less intuitive since humans often determine the best options by comparing competing candidates; second, the inference process of pairwise TE is time-consuming, especially when the option space is large. To deal with the two issues, this work first proposes a contextualized TE model( Context-TE) by appending other k options as the context of the current( P, H) modeling. Context-TE is able to learn more reliable decision for the H since it considers various context. Second, we speed up Context-TE by coming up with Parallel-TE, which learns the decisions of multiple options simultaneously. Parallel-TE significantly improves the inference speed while keeping comparable performance with Context-TE. Our methods are evaluated on three tasks( ultra-fine entity typing, intent detection and multi-choice QA) that are typical selection problems with different sizes of options. Experiments show our models set new SOTA performance; particularly, Parallel-TE is faster than the pairwise TE by k times in inference.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26500,10.1609/aaai.v37i11.26500,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech & Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Select Prototypical Parts for Interpretable Sequential Data Modeling,Yifei Zhang;Neng Gao;Cunqing Ma,"Prototype-based interpretability methods provide intuitive explanations of model prediction by comparing samples to a reference set of memorized exemplars or typical representatives in terms of similarity. In the field of sequential data modeling, similarity calculations of prototypes are usually based on encoded representation vectors. However, due to highly recursive functions, there is usually a non-negligible disparity between the prototype-based explanations and the original input. In this work, we propose a Self-Explaining Selective Model( SESM) that uses a linear combination of prototypical concepts to explain its own predictions. The model employs the idea of case-based reasoning by selecting sub-sequences of the input that mostly activate different concepts as prototypical parts, which users can compare to sub-sequences selected from different example inputs to understand model decisions. For better interpretability, we design multiple constraints including diversity, stability, and locality as training objectives. Extensive experiments in different domains demonstrate that our method exhibits promising interpretability and competitive accuracy.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25812,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25812,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Solve NP-Complete Problems: A Graph Neural Network for Decision TSP,Marcelo Prates;Pedro H. C. Avelar;Henrique Lemos;Luis C. Lamb;Moshe Y. Vardi,"Graph Neural Networks( GNN) are a promising technique for bridging differential programming and combinatorial domains. GNNs employ trainable modules which can be assembled in different configurations that reflect the relational structure of each problem instance. In this paper, we show that GNNs can learn to solve, with very little supervision, the decision variant of the Traveling Salesperson Problem( TSP) , a highly relevant NP-Complete problem. Our model is trained to function as an effective message-passing algorithm in which edges( embedded with their weights) communicate with vertices for a number of iterations after which the model is asked to decide whether a route with cost < C exists. We show that such a network can be trained with sets of dual examples: given the optimal tour cost C\uc0\u8727 , we produce one decision instance with target cost x% smaller and one with target cost x% larger than C\u8727 . We were able to obtain 80% accuracy training with \u8722 2%, +2% deviations, and the same trained model can generalize for more relaxed deviations with increasing performance. We also show that the model is capable of generalizing for larger problem sizes. Finally, we provide a method for predicting the optimal route cost within 2% deviation from the ground truth. In summary, our work shows that Graph Neural Networks are powerful enough to solve NP-Complete problems which combine symbolic and numeric data.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4399,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014731,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Stop Cut Generation for Efficient Mixed-Integer Linear Programming,Haotian Ling;Zhihai Wang;Jie Wang,"Cutting planes( cuts) play an important role in solving mixed-integer linear programs( MILPs) , as they significantly tighten the dual bounds and improve the solving performance. A key problem for cuts is when to stop cuts generation, which is important for the efficiency of solving MILPs. However, many modern MILP solvers employ hard-coded heuristics to tackle this problem, which tends to neglect underlying patterns among MILPs from certain applications. To address this challenge, we formulate the cuts generation stopping problem as a reinforcement learning problem and propose a novel hybrid graph representation model( HYGRO) to learn effective stopping strategies. An appealing feature of HYGRO is that it can effectively capture both the dynamic and static features of MILPs, enabling dynamic decision-making for the stopping strategies. To the best of our knowledge, HYGRO is the first data-driven method to tackle the cuts generation stopping problem. By integrating our approach with modern solvers, experiments demonstrate that HYGRO significantly improves the efficiency of solving MILPs compared to competitive baselines, achieving up to 31% improvement.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30064,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30064,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Stop: Dynamic Simulation Monte-Carlo Tree Search,Li-Cheng Lan;Ti-Rong Wu;I-Chen Wu;Cho-Jui Hsieh,"Monte Carlo tree search( MCTS) has achieved state-of-the-art results in many domains such as Go and Atari games when combining with deep neural networks( DNNs). When more simulations are executed, MCTS can achieve higher performance but also requires enormous amounts of CPU and GPU resources. However, not all states require a long searching time to identify the best action that the agent can find. For example, in 19x19 Go and NoGo, we found that for more than half of the states, the best action predicted by DNN remains unchanged even after searching 2 minutes. This implies that a significant amount of resources can be saved if we are able to stop the searching earlier when we are confident with the current searching result. In this paper, we propose to achieve this goal by predicting the uncertainty of the current searching status and use the result to decide whether we should stop searching. With our algorithm, called Dynamic Simulation MCTS( DS-MCTS) , we can speed up a NoGo agent trained by AlphaZero 2. 5 times faster while maintaining a similar winning rate, which is critical for training and conducting experiments. Also, under the same average simulation count, our method can achieve a 61\\\\% winning rate against the original program.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16100,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16100,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning to Truncate Ranked Lists for Information Retrieval,Chen Wu;Ruqing Zhang;Jiafeng Guo;Yixing Fan;Yanyan Lan;Xueqi Cheng,"Ranked list truncation is of critical importance in a variety of professional information retrieval applications such as patent search or legal search. The goal is to dynamically determine the number of returned documents according to some user-defined objectives, in order to reach a balance between the overall utility of the results and user efforts. Existing methods formulate this task as a sequential decision problem and take some pre-defined loss as a proxy objective, which suffers from the limitation of local decision and non-direct optimization. In this work, we propose a global decision based truncation model named AttnCut, which directly optimizes user-defined objectives for the ranked list truncation. Specifically, we take the successful transformer architecture to capture the global dependency within the ranked list for truncation decision, and employ the reward augmented maximum likelihood( RAML) for direct optimization. We consider two types of user-defined objectives which are of practical usage. One is the widely adopted metric such as F1 which acts as a balanced objective, and the other is the best F1 under some minimal recall constraint which represents a typical objective in professional search. Empirical results over the Robust04 and MQ2007 datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach as compared with the state-of-the-art baselines.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16572,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16572,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning with Safety Constraints: Sample Complexity of Reinforcement Learning for Constrained MDPs,Aria HasanzadeZonuzy;Archana Bura;Dileep Kalathil;Srinivas Shakkottai,"Many physical systems have underlying safety considerations that require that the policy employed ensures the satisfaction of a set of constraints. The analytical formulation usually takes the form of a Constrained Markov Decision Process( CMDP). We focus on the case where the CMDP is unknown, and RL algorithms obtain samples to discover the model and compute an optimal constrained policy. Our goal is to characterize the relationship between safety constraints and the number of samples needed to ensure a desired level of accuracy---both objective maximization and constraint satisfaction---in a PAC sense. We explore two classes of RL algorithms, namely, ( i) a generative model based approach, wherein samples are taken initially to estimate a model, and( ii) an online approach, wherein the model is updated as samples are obtained. Our main finding is that compared to the best known bounds of the unconstrained regime, the sample complexity of constrained RL algorithms are increased by a factor that is logarithmic in the number of constraints, which suggests that the approach may be easily utilized in real systems.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16937,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16937,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning With Single-Teacher Multi-Student,Shan You;Chang Xu;Chao Xu;Dacheng Tao,"In this paper we study a new learning problem defined as Single-Teacher Multi-Student( STMS) problem, which investigates how to learn a series of student( simple and specific) models from a single teacher( complex and universal) model. Taking the multiclass and binary classification for example, we focus on learning multiple binary classifiers from a single multiclass classifier, where each of binary classifier is responsible for a certain class. This actually derives from some realistic problems, such as identifying the suspect based on a comprehensive face recognition system. By treating the already-trained multiclass classifier as the teacher, and multiple binary classifiers as the students, we propose a gated support vector machine( gSVM) as a solution. A series of gSVMs are learned with the help of single teacher multiclass classifier. The teachers help is two-fold; first, the teachers score provides the gated values for students decision; second, the teacher can guide the students to accommodate training examples with different difficulty degrees. Extensive experiments on real datasets validate its effectiveness.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11636,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11636,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning with Unsure Responses,Kunihiro Takeoka;Yuyang Dong;Masafumi Oyamada,"Many annotation systems provide to add an unsure option in the labels, because the annotators have different expertise, and they may not have enough confidence to choose a label for some assigned instances. However, all the existing approaches only learn the labels with a clear class name and ignore the unsure responses. Due to the unsure response also account for a proportion of the dataset( e. g. , about 10-30% in real datasets) , existing approaches lead to high costs such as paying more money or taking more time to collect enough size of labeled data. Therefore, it is a significant issue to make use of these unsure. In this paper, we make the unsure responses contribute to training classifiers. We found a property that the instances corresponding to the unsure responses always appear close to the decision boundary of classification. We design a loss function called unsure loss based on this property. We extend the conventional methods for classification and learning from crowds with this unsure loss. Experimental results on realworld and synthetic data demonstrate the performance of our method and its superiority over baseline methods.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5355,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5355,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Learning-Assisted Algorithm Unrolling for Online Optimization with Budget Constraints,Jianyi Yang;Shaolei Ren,"Online optimization with multiple budget constraints is challenging since the online decisions over a short time horizon are coupled together by strict inventory constraints. The existing manually-designed algorithms cannot achieve satisfactory average performance for this setting because they often need a large number of time steps for convergence and/or may violate the inventory constraints. In this paper, we propose a new machine learning( ML) assisted unrolling approach, called LAAU( Learning-Assisted Algorithm Unrolling) , which unrolls the agent\'92s online decision pipeline and leverages an ML model for updating the Lagrangian multiplier online. For efficient training via backpropagation, we derive gradients of the decision pipeline over time. We also provide the average cost bounds for two cases when training data is available offline and collected online, respectively. Finally, we present numerical results to highlight that LAAU can outperform the existing baselines.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26278,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26278,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Least General Generalizations in Description Logic: Verification and Existence,Jean Christoph Jung;Carsten Lutz;Frank Wolter,"We study two forms of least general generalizations in description logic, the least common subsumer( LCS) and most specific concept( MSC). While the LCS generalizes from examples that take the form of concepts, the MSC generalizes from individuals in data. Our focus is on the complexity of existence and verification, the latter meaning to decide whether a candidate concept is the LCS or MSC. We consider cases with and without a background TBox and a target signature. Our results range from coNP-complete for LCS and MSC verification in the description logic \uc0\u949 \u8466  without TBoxes to undecidability of LCS and MSC verification and existence in \u949 \u8466 I with TBoxes. To obtain results in the presence of a TBox, we establish a close link between the problems studied in this paper and concept learning from positive and negative examples. We also give a way to regain decidability in \u949 \u8466 I with TBoxes and study single example MSC as a special case.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5675,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5675,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Leaving the Nest: Going beyond Local Loss Functions for Predict-Then-Optimize,Sanket Shah;Bryan Wilder;Andrew Perrault;Milind Tambe,"Predict-then-Optimize is a framework for using machine learning to perform decision-making under uncertainty. The central research question it asks is, How can we use the structure of a decision-making task to tailor ML models for that specific task? To this end, recent work has proposed learning task-specific loss functions that capture this underlying structure. However, current approaches make restrictive assumptions about the form of these losses and their impact on ML model behavior. These assumptions both lead to approaches with high computational cost, and when they are violated in practice, poor performance. In this paper, we propose solutions to these issues, avoiding the aforementioned assumptions and utilizing the ML models features to increase the sample efficiency of learning loss functions. We empirically show that our method achieves state-of-the-art results in four domains from the literature, often requiring an order of magnitude fewer samples than comparable methods from past work. Moreover, our approach outperforms the best existing method by nearly 200% when the localness assumption is broken.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29410,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29410,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,LERE: Learning-Based Low-Rank Matrix Recovery with Rank Estimation,Zhengqin Xu;Yulun Zhang;Chao Ma;Yichao Yan;Zelin Peng;Shoulie Xie;Shiqian Wu;Xiaokang Yang,"A fundamental task in the realms of computer vision, Low-Rank Matrix Recovery( LRMR) focuses on the inherent low-rank structure precise recovery from incomplete data and/or corrupted measurements given that the rank is a known prior or accurately estimated. However, it remains challenging for existing rank estimation methods to accurately estimate the rank of an ill-conditioned matrix. Also, existing LRMR optimization methods are heavily dependent on the chosen parameters, and are therefore difficult to adapt to different situations. Addressing these issues, A novel LEarning-based low-rank matrix recovery with Rank Estimation( LERE) is proposed. More specifically, considering the characteristics of the Gerschgorin disks center and radius, a new heuristic decision rule in the Gerschgorin Disk Theorem is significantly enhanced and the low-rank boundary can be exactly located, which leads to a marked improvement in the accuracy of rank estimation. According to the estimated rank, we select row and column sub-matrices from the observation matrix by uniformly random sampling. A 17-iteration feedforward-recurrent-mixed neural network is then adapted to learn the parameters in the sub-matrix recovery processing. Finally, by the correlation of the row sub-matrix and column sub-matrix, LERE successfully recovers the underlying low-rank matrix. Overall, LERE is more efficient and robust than existing LRMR methods. Experimental results demonstrate that LERE surpasses state-of-the-art( SOTA) methods. The code for this work is accessible at https://github. com/zhengqinxu/LERE.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29557,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29557,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Let Graph Be the Go Board: Gradient-Free Node Injection Attack for Graph Neural Networks via Reinforcement Learning,Mingxuan Ju;Yujie Fan;Chuxu Zhang;Yanfang Ye,"Graph Neural Networks( GNNs) have drawn significant attentions over the years and been broadly applied to essential applications requiring solid robustness or vigorous security standards, such as product recommendation and user behavior modeling. Under these scenarios, exploiting GNNs vulnerabilities and further downgrading its performance become extremely incentive for adversaries. Previous attackers mainly focus on structural perturbations or node injections to the existing graphs, guided by gradients from the surrogate models. Although they deliver promising results, several limitations still exist. For the structural perturbation attack, to launch a proposed attack, adversaries need to manipulate the existing graph topology, which is impractical in most circumstances. Whereas for the node injection attack, though being more practical, current approaches require training surrogate models to simulate a white-box setting, which results in significant performance downgrade when the surrogate architecture diverges from the actual victim model. To bridge these gaps, in this paper, we study the problem of black-box node injection attack, without training a potentially misleading surrogate model. Specifically, we model the node injection attack as a Markov decision process and propose Gradient-free Graph Advantage Actor Critic, namely G2A2C, a reinforcement learning framework in the fashion of advantage actor critic. By directly querying the victim model, G2A2C learns to inject highly malicious nodes with extremely limited attacking budgets, while maintaining a similar node feature distribution. Through our comprehensive experiments over eight acknowledged benchmark datasets with different characteristics, we demonstrate the superior performance of our proposed G2A2C over the existing state-of-the-art attackers. Source code is publicly available at: https://github. com/jumxglhf/G2A2C.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25558,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25558,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Leveraging Observations in Bandits: Between Risks and Benefits,Andrei Lupu;Audrey Durand;Doina Precup,"Imitation learning has been widely used to speed up learning in novice agents, by allowing them to leverage existing data from experts. Allowing an agent to be influenced by external observations can benefit to the learning process, but it also puts the agent at risk of following sub-optimal behaviours. In this paper, we study this problem in the context of bandits. More specifically, we consider that an agent( learner) is interacting with a bandit-style decision task, but can also observe a target policy interacting with the same environment. The learner observes only the target\'92s actions, not the rewards obtained. We introduce a new bandit optimism modifier that uses conditional optimism contingent on the actions of the target in order to guide the agent\'92s exploration. We analyze the effect of this modification on the well-known Upper Confidence Bound algorithm by proving that it preserves a regret upper-bound of order O( lnT) , even in the presence of a very poor target, and we derive the dependency of the expected regret on the general target policy. We provide empirical results showing both great benefits as well as certain limitations inherent to observational learning in the multi-armed bandit setting. Experiments are conducted using targets satisfying theoretical assumptions with high probability, thus narrowing the gap between theory and application.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4568,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016112,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lifelong Learning with a Changing Action Set,Yash Chandak;Georgios Theocharous;Chris Nota;Philip Thomas,"In many real-world sequential decision making problems, the number of available actions( decisions) can vary over time. While problems like catastrophic forgetting, changing transition dynamics, changing rewards functions, etc. have been well-studied in the lifelong learning literature, the setting where the size of the action set changes remains unaddressed. In this paper, we present first steps towards developing an algorithm that autonomously adapts to an action set whose size changes over time. To tackle this open problem, we break it into two problems that can be solved iteratively: inferring the underlying, unknown, structure in the space of actions and optimizing a policy that leverages this structure. We demonstrate the efficiency of this approach on large-scale real-world lifelong learning problems.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5739,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5739,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lift-Based Bidding in Ad Selection,Jian Xu;Xuhui Shao;Jianjie Ma;Kuang-chih Lee;Hang Qi;Quan Lu,"Real-time bidding has become one of the largest online advertising markets in the world. Today the bid price per ad impression is typically decided by the expected value of how it can lead to a desired action event to the advertiser. However, this industry standard approach to decide the bid price does not consider the actual effect of the ad shown to the user, which should be measured based on the performance lift among users who have been or have not been exposed to a certain treatment of ads. In this paper, we propose a new bidding strategy and prove that if the bid price is decided based on the performance lift rather than absolute performance value, advertisers can actually gain more action events. We describe the modeling methodology to predict the performance lift and demonstrate the actual performance gain through blind A/B test with real ad campaigns. We also show that to move the demand-side platforms to bid based on performance lift, they should be rewarded based on the relative performance lift they contribute.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10025,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10025,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lifted MEU by Weighted Model Counting,Udi Apsel;Ronen Brafman,"Recent work in the field of probabilistic inference demonstrated the efficiency of weighted model counting( WMC) enginesfor exact inference in propositional and, very recently, first order models. To date, these methods have not been applied to decision making models, propositional or first order, such as influence diagrams, and Markov decision networks( MDN). In this paper we show how this technique can be applied to such models. First, we show how WMC can be used to solve( propositional) MDNs. Then, we show how this can be extended to handle a first-order model \'97 the Markov Logic Decision Network( MLDN). WMC offers two central benefits: it is a very simple and very efficient technique. This is particularly true for the first-order case, where the WMC approach is simpler conceptually, and, in many cases, more effective computationally than the existing methods for solving MLDNs via first-order variable elimination, or via propositionalization. We demonstrate the above empirically.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8396,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8396,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reasoning Under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lifting Preferences over Alternatives to Preferences over Sets of Alternatives: The Complexity of Recognizing Desirable Families of Sets,Jan Maly,"The problem of lifting a preference order on a set of objects to a preference order on a family of subsets of this set is a fundamental problem with a wide variety of applications in AI. The process is often guided by axioms postulating properties the lifted order should have. Well-known impossibility results by Kannai and Peleg and by Barber\'e0 and Pattanaik tell us that some desirable axioms \'96 namely dominance and( strict) independence \'96 are not jointly satisfiable for any linear order on the objects if all non-empty sets of objects are to be ordered. On the other hand, if not all non-empty sets of objects are to be ordered, the axioms are jointly satisfiable for all linear orders on the objects for some families of sets. Such families are very important for applications as they allow for the use of lifted orders, for example, in combinatorial voting. In this paper, we determine the computational complexity of recognizing such families. We show that it is \uc0\u928 2p-complete to decide for a given family of subsets whether dominance and independence or dominance and strict independence are jointly satisfiable for all linear orders on the objects if the lifted order needs to be total. Furthermore, we show that the problem remains coNP-complete if the lifted order can be incomplete. Additionally, we show that the complexity of these problem can increase exponentially if the family of sets is not given explicitly but via a succinct domain restriction.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5590,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5590,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lifting( D) QBF Preprocessing and Solving Techniques to( D) SSAT,Che Cheng;Jie-Hong R. Jiang,"Dependency stochastic Boolean satisfiability( DSSAT) generalizes stochastic Boolean satisfiability( SSAT) in existential variables being Henkinized allowing their dependencies on randomized variables to be explicitly specified. It allows NEXPTIME problems of reasoning under uncertainty and partial information to be compactly encoded. To date, no decision procedure has been implemented for solving DSSAT formulas. This work provides the first such tool by converting DSSAT into SSAT with dependency elimination, similar to converting dependency quantified Boolean formula( DQBF) to quantified Boolean formula( QBF). Moreover, we extend( D) QBF preprocessing techniques and implement the first standalone( D) SSAT preprocessor. Experimental results show that solving DSSAT via dependency elimination is highly applicable and that existing SSAT solvers may benefit from preprocessing.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25504,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25504,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"LIMREF: Local Interpretable Model Agnostic Rule-Based Explanations for Forecasting, with an Application to Electricity Smart Meter Data",Dilini Rajapaksha;Christoph Bergmeir,"Accurate electricity demand forecasts play a key role in sustainable power systems. To enable better decision-making especially for demand flexibility of the end-user, it is necessary to provide not only accurate but also understandable and actionable forecasts. To provide accurate forecasts Global Forecasting Models( GFM) that are trained across time series have shown superior results in many demand forecasting competitions and real-world applications recently, compared with univariate forecasting approaches. We aim to fill the gap between the accuracy and the interpretability in global forecasting approaches. In order to explain the global model forecasts, we propose Local Interpretable Model-agnostic Rule-based Explanations for Forecasting( LIMREF) , which is a local explainer framework that produces k-optimal impact rules for a particular forecast, considering the global forecasting model as a black-box model, in a model-agnostic way. It provides different types of rules which explain the forecast of the global model and the counterfactual rules, which provide actionable insights for potential changes to obtain different outputs for given instances. We conduct experiments using a large-scale electricity demand dataset with exogenous features such as temperature and calendar effects. Here, we evaluate the quality of the explanations produced by the LIMREF framework in terms of both qualitative and quantitative aspects such as accuracy, fidelity and comprehensibility, and benchmark those against other local explainers.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21469,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21469,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Linear-Time Verification of Data-Aware Processes Modulo Theories via Covers and Automata,Alessandro Gianola;Marco Montali;Sarah Winkler,"The need to model and analyse dynamic systems operating over complex data is ubiquitous in AI and neighboring areas, in particular business process management. Analysing such data-aware systems is a notoriously difficult problem, as they are intrinsically infinite-state. Existing approaches work for specific datatypes, and/or limit themselves to the verification of safety properties. In this paper, we lift both such limitations, studying for the first time linear-time verification for so-called data-aware processes modulo theories( DMTs) , from the foundational and practical point of view. The DMT model is very general, as it supports processes operating over variables that can store arbitrary types of data, ranging over infinite domains and equipped with domain-specific predicates. Specifically, we provide four contributions. First, we devise a semi-decision procedure for linear-time verification of DMTs, which works for a very large class of datatypes obeying to mild model-theoretic assumptions. The procedure relies on a unique combination of automata-theoretic and cover computation techniques to respectively deal with linear-time properties and datatypes. Second, we identify an abstract, semantic property that guarantees the existence of a faithful finite-state abstraction of the original system, and show that our method becomes a decision procedure in this case. Third, we identify concrete, checkable classes of systems that satisfy this property, generalising several results in the literature. Finally, we present an implementation and an experimental evaluation over a benchmark of real-world data-aware business processes.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28922,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28922,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Linguistic Fingerprints of Internet Censorship: The Case of Sina Weibo,Kei Yin Ng;Anna Feldman;Jing Peng,"This paper studies how the linguistic components of blogposts collected from Sina Weibo, a Chinese microblogging platform, might affect the blogposts likelihood of being censored. Our results go along with King et al. ( 2013) s Collective Action Potential( CAP) theory, which states that a blogposts potential of causing riot or assembly in real life is the key determinant of it getting censored. Although there is not a definitive measure of this construct, the linguistic features that we identify as discriminatory go along with the CAP theory. We build a classifier that significantly outperforms non-expert humans in predicting whether a blogpost will be censored. The crowdsourcing results suggest that while humans tend to see censored blogposts as more controversial and more likely to trigger action in real life than the uncensored counterparts, they in general cannot make a better guess than our model when it comes to \'91reading the mind\'92 of the censors in deciding whether a blogpost should be censored. We do not claim that censorship is only determined by the linguistic features. There are many other factors contributing to censorship decisions. The focus of the present paper is on the linguistic form of blogposts. Our work suggests that it is possible to use linguistic properties of social media posts to automatically predict if they are going to be censored.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5381,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5381,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Technical Track: AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lipschitz Lifelong Reinforcement Learning,Erwan Lecarpentier;David Abel;Kavosh Asadi;Yuu Jinnai;Emmanuel Rachelson;Michael L. Littman,"We consider the problem of knowledge transfer when an agent is facing a series of Reinforcement Learning( RL) tasks. We introduce a novel metric between Markov Decision Processes and establish that close MDPs have close optimal value functions. Formally, the optimal value functions are Lipschitz continuous with respect to the tasks space. These theoretical results lead us to a value-transfer method for Lifelong RL, which we use to build a PAC-MDP algorithm with improved convergence rate. Further, we show the method to experience no negative transfer with high probability. We illustrate the benefits of the method in Lifelong RL experiments.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17006,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.17006,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Liquid Democracy with Ranked Delegations,Markus Brill;Th\'e9o Delemazure;Anne-Marie George;Martin Lackner;Ulrike Schmidt-Kraepelin,"Liquid democracy is a novel paradigm for collective decision-making that gives agents the choice between casting a direct vote or delegating their vote to another agent. We consider a generalization of the standard liquid democracy setting by allowing agents to specify multiple potential delegates, together with a preference ranking among them. This generalization increases the number of possible delegation paths and enables higher participation rates because fewer votes are lost due to delegation cycles or abstaining agents. In order to implement this generalization of liquid democracy, we need to find a principled way of choosing between multiple delegation paths. In this paper, we provide a thorough axiomatic analysis of the space of delegation rules, i. e. , functions assigning a feasible delegation path to each delegating agent. In particular, we prove axiomatic characterizations as well as an impossibility result for delegation rules. We also analyze requirements on delegation rules that have been suggested by practitioners, and introduce novel rules with attractive properties. By performing an extensive experimental analysis on synthetic as well as real-world data, we compare delegation rules with respect to several quantitative criteria relating to the chosen paths and the resulting distribution of voting power. Our experiments reveal that delegation rules can be aligned on a spectrum reflecting an inherent trade-off between competing objectives.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20417,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20417,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Liquid Democracy: An Algorithmic Perspective,Anson Kahng;Simon Mackenzie;Ariel Procaccia,"We study liquid democracy, a collective decision making paradigm that allows voters to transitively delegate their votes, through an algorithmic lens. In our model, there are two alternatives, one correct and one incorrect, and we are interested in the probability that the majority opinion is correct. Our main question is whether there exist delegation mechanisms that are guaranteed to outperform direct voting, in the sense of being always at least as likely, and sometimes more likely, to make a correct decision. Even though we assume that voters can only delegate their votes to better-informed voters, we show that local delegation mechanisms, which only take the local neighborhood of each voter as input( and, arguably, capture the spirit of liquid democracy) , cannot provide the foregoing guarantee. By contrast, we design a non-local delegation mechanism that does provably outperform direct voting under mild assumptions about voters.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11468,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11468,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Local Justice and Machine Learning: Modeling and Inferring Dynamic Ethical Preferences toward Allocations,Violet (Xinying) Chen;Joshua Williams;Derek Leben;Hoda Heidari,"We consider a setting in which a social planner has to make a sequence of decisions to allocate scarce resources in a high-stakes domain. Our goal is to understand stakeholders dynamic moral preferences toward such allocational policies. In particular, we evaluate the sensitivity of moral preferences to the history of allocations and their perceived future impact on various socially salient groups. We propose a mathematical model to capture and infer such dynamic moral preferences. We illustrate our model through small-scale human-subject experiments focused on the allocation of scarce medical resource distributions during a hypothetical viral epidemic. We observe that participants preferences are indeed historyand impact-dependent. Additionally, our preliminary experimental results reveal intriguing patterns specific to medical resources---a topic that is particularly salient against the backdrop of the global covid-19 pandemic.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25737,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25737,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Logic Rule Guided Attribution with Dynamic Ablation,Jianqiao An;Yuandu Lai;Yahong Han,"With the increasing demands for understanding the internal behaviors of deep networks, Explainable AI( XAI) has been made remarkable progress in interpreting the models decision. A family of attribution techniques has been proposed, highlighting whether the input pixels are responsible for the models prediction. However, the existing attribution methods suffer from the lack of rule guidance and require further human interpretations. In this paper, we construct the if-then logic rules that are sufficiently precise locally. Moreover, a novel rule-guided method, dynamic ablation( DA) , is proposed to find a minimal bound sufficient in an input image to justify the networks prediction and aggregate iteratively to reach a complete attribution. Both qualitative and quantitative experiments are conducted to evaluate the proposed DA. We demonstrate the advantages of our method in providing clear and explicit explanations that are also easy for human experts to understand. Besides, through the attribution on a series of trained networks with different architectures, we show that more complex networks require less information to make a specific prediction.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19881,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19881,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Logical Foundations of Privacy-Preserving Publishing of Linked Data,Bernardo Cuenca Grau;Egor Kostylev,"The widespread adoption of Linked Data has been driven by the increasing demand for information exchange between organisations, as well as by data publishing regulations in domains such as health care and governance. In this setting, sensitive information is at risk of disclosure since published data can be linked with arbitrary external data sources. In this paper we lay the foundations of privacy-preserving data publishing( PPDP) in the context of Linked Data. We consider anonymisations of RDF graphs( and, more generally, relational datasets with labelled nulls) and define notions of safe and optimal anonymisations. Safety ensures that the anonymised data can be published with provable protection guarantees against linking attacks, whereas optimality ensures that it preserves as much information from the original data as possible, while satisfying the safety requirement. We establish the complexity of the underpinning decision problems both under open-world semantics inherent to RDF and a closed-world semantics, where we assume that an attacker has complete knowledge over some part of the original data.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10105,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10105,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Long-Term Fair Decision Making through Deep Generative Models,Yaowei Hu;Yongkai Wu;Lu Zhang,"This paper studies long-term fair machine learning which aims to mitigate group disparity over the long term in sequential decision-making systems. To define long-term fairness, we leverage the temporal causal graph and use the 1-Wasserstein distance between the interventional distributions of different demographic groups at a sufficiently large time step as the quantitative metric. Then, we propose a three-phase learning framework where the decision model is trained on high-fidelity data generated by a deep generative model. We formulate the optimization problem as a performative risk minimization and adopt the repeated gradient descent algorithm for learning. The empirical evaluation shows the efficacy of the proposed method using both synthetic and semi-synthetic datasets.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30215,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30215,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Long-Term Safe Reinforcement Learning with Binary Feedback,Akifumi Wachi;Wataru Hashimoto;Kazumune Hashimoto,"Safety is an indispensable requirement for applying reinforcement learning( RL) to real problems. Although there has been a surge of safe RL algorithms proposed in recent years, most existing work typically 1) relies on receiving numeric safety feedback; 2) does not guarantee safety during the learning process; 3) limits the problem to a priori known, deterministic transition dynamics; and/or 4) assume the existence of a known safe policy for any states. Addressing the issues mentioned above, we thus propose Long-term Binary-feedback Safe RL( LoBiSaRL) , a safe RL algorithm for constrained Markov decision processes( CMDPs) with binary safety feedback and an unknown, stochastic state transition function. LoBiSaRL optimizes a policy to maximize rewards while guaranteeing long-term safety that an agent executes only safe state-action pairs throughout each episode with high probability. Specifically, LoBiSaRL models the binary safety function via a generalized linear model( GLM) and conservatively takes only a safe action at every time step while inferring its effect on future safety under proper assumptions. Our theoretical results show that LoBiSaRL guarantees the long-term safety constraint, with high probability. Finally, our empirical results demonstrate that our algorithm is safer than existing methods without significantly compromising performance in terms of reward.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30164,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30164,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Loop Estimator for Discounted Values in Markov Reward Processes,Falcon Z. Dai;Matthew R. Walter,"At the working heart of policy iteration algorithms commonly used and studied in the discounted setting of reinforcement learning, the policy evaluation step estimates the value of states with samples from a Markov reward process induced by following a Markov policy in a Markov decision process. We propose a simple and efficient estimator called loop estimator that exploits the regenerative structure of Markov reward processes without explicitly estimating a full model. Our method enjoys a space complexity of O( 1) when estimating the value of a single positive recurrent state s unlike TD with O( S) or model-based methods with O( S^2). Moreover, the regenerative structure enables us to show, without relying on the generative model approach, that the estimator has an instance-dependent convergence rate of O~( \\\\sqrt\{\\\\tau_s/T\}) over steps T on a single sample path, where \\\\tau_s is the maximal expected hitting time to state s. In preliminary numerical experiments, the loop estimator outperforms model-free methods, such as TD( k) , and is competitive with the model-based estimator.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16881,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16881,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Losses over Labels: Weakly Supervised Learning via Direct Loss Construction,Dylan Sam;J. Zico Kolter,"Owing to the prohibitive costs of generating large amounts of labeled data, programmatic weak supervision is a growing paradigm within machine learning. In this setting, users design heuristics that provide noisy labels for subsets of the data. These weak labels are combined( typically via a graphical model) to form pseudolabels, which are then used to train a downstream model. In this work, we question a foundational premise of the typical weakly supervised learning pipeline: given that the heuristic provides all \'93label\'94 information, why do we need to generate pseudolabels at all? Instead, we propose to directly transform the heuristics themselves into corresponding loss functions that penalize differences between our model and the heuristic. By constructing losses directly from the heuristics, we can incorporate more information than is used in the standard weakly supervised pipeline, such as how the heuristics make their decisions, which explicitly informs feature selection during training. We call our method Losses over Labels( LoL) as it creates losses directly from heuristics without going through the intermediate step of a label. We show that LoL improves upon existing weak supervision methods on several benchmark text and image classification tasks and further demonstrate that incorporating gradient information leads to better performance on almost every task.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26159,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26159,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Lottery Pools: Winning More by Interpolating Tickets without Increasing Training or Inference Cost,Lu Yin;Shiwei Liu;Meng Fang;Tianjin Huang;Vlado Menkovski;Mykola Pechenizkiy,"Lottery tickets( LTs) is able to discover accurate and sparse subnetworks that could be trained in isolation to match the performance of dense networks. Ensemble, in parallel, is one of the oldest time-proven tricks in machine learning to improve performance by combining the output of multiple independent models. However, the benefits of ensemble in the context of LTs will be diluted since ensemble does not directly lead to stronger sparse subnetworks, but leverages their predictions for a better decision. In this work, we first observe that directly averaging the weights of the adjacent learned subnetworks significantly boosts the performance of LTs. Encouraged by this observation, we further propose an alternative way to perform an ensemble over the subnetworks identified by iterative magnitude pruning via a simple interpolating strategy. We call our method Lottery Pools. In contrast to the naive ensemble which brings no performance gains to each single subnetwork, Lottery Pools yields much stronger sparse subnetworks than the original LTs without requiring any extra training or inference cost. Across various modern architectures on CIFAR-10/100 and ImageNet, we show that our method achieves significant performance gains in both, in-distribution and out-of-distribution scenarios. Impressively, evaluated with VGG-16 and ResNet-18, the produced sparse subnetworks outperform the original LTs by up to 1. 88% on CIFAR-100 and 2. 36% on CIFAR-100-C; the resulting dense network surpasses the pre-trained dense-model up to 2. 22% on CIFAR-100 and 2. 38% on CIFAR-100-C. Our source code can be found at https://github. com/luuyin/Lottery-pools.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26297,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26297,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Low Category Uncertainty and High Training Potential Instance Learning for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation,Xinyu Zhang;Meng Kang;Shuai L\'fc,"Recently, instance contrastive learning achieves good results in unsupervised domain adaptation. It reduces the distances between positive samples and the anchor, increases the distances between negative samples and the anchor, and learns discriminative feature representations for target samples. However, most recent methods for identifying positive and negative samples are based on whether the pseudo-labels of samples and the pseudo-label of the anchor correspond to the same class. Due to the lack of target labels, many uncertain data are mistakenly labeled during the training process, and many low training potential data are also utilized. To address these problems, we propose Low Category Uncertainty and High Training Potential Instance Learning for Unsupervised Domain Adaptation( LUHP). We first propose a weight to measure the category uncertainty of the target sample. We can effectively filter the samples near the decision boundary through category uncertainty thresholds which are calculated by weights. Then we propose a new loss to focus on samples with high training potential. Finally, for anchors with low category uncertainty, we propose a sample reuse strategy to make the model more robust. We demonstrate the effectiveness of LUHP by showing the results of four datasets widely used in unsupervised domain adaptation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29630,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29630,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,LTLf/LDLf Non-Markovian Rewards,Ronen Brafman;Giuseppe De Giacomo;Fabio Patrizi,"In Markov Decision Processes( MDPs) , the reward obtained in a state is Markovian, i. e. , depends on the last state and action. This dependency makes it difficult to reward more interesting long-term behaviors, such as always closing a door after it has been opened, or providing coffee only following a request. Extending MDPs to handle non-Markovian reward functions was the subject of two previous lines of work. Both use LTL variants to specify the reward function and then compile the new model back into a Markovian model. Building on recent progress in temporal logics over finite traces, we adopt LDLf for specifying non-Markovian rewards and provide an elegant automata construction for building a Markovian model, which extends that of previous work and offers strong minimality and compositionality guarantees.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11572,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11572,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,LUCID: Exposing Algorithmic Bias through Inverse Design,Carmen Mazijn;Carina Prunkl;Andres Algaba;Jan Danckaert;Vincent Ginis,"AI systems can create, propagate, support, and automate bias in decision-making processes. To mitigate biased decisions, we both need to understand the origin of the bias and define what it means for an algorithm to make fair decisions. Most group fairness notions assess a models equality of outcome by computing statistical metrics on the outputs. We argue that these output metrics encounter intrinsic obstacles and present a complementary approach that aligns with the increasing focus on equality of treatment. By Locating Unfairness through Canonical Inverse Design( LUCID) , we generate a canonical set that shows the desired inputs for a model given a preferred output. The canonical set reveals the models internal logic and exposes potential unethical biases by repeatedly interrogating the decision-making process. We evaluate LUCID on the UCI Adult and COMPAS data sets and find that some biases detected by a canonical set differ from those of output metrics. The results show that by shifting the focus towards equality of treatment and looking into the algorithms internal workings, the canonical sets are a valuable addition to the toolbox of algorithmic fairness evaluation.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26683,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26683,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,LUNA: Localizing Unfamiliarity Near Acquaintance for Open-Set Long-Tailed Recognition,Jiarui Cai;Yizhou Wang;Hung-Min Hsu;Jenq-Neng Hwang;Kelsey Magrane;Craig S Rose,"The predefined artificially-balanced training classes in object recognition have limited capability in modeling real-world scenarios where objects are imbalanced-distributed with unknown classes. In this paper, we discuss a promising solution to the Open-set Long-Tailed Recognition( OLTR) task utilizing metric learning. Firstly, we propose a distribution-sensitive loss, which weighs more on the tail classes to decrease the intra-class distance in the feature space. Building upon these concentrated feature clusters, a local-density-based metric is introduced, called Localizing Unfamiliarity Near Acquaintance( LUNA) , to measure the novelty of a testing sample. LUNA is flexible with different cluster sizes and is reliable on the cluster boundary by considering neighbors of different properties. Moreover, contrary to most of the existing works that alleviate the open-set detection as a simple binary decision, LUNA is a quantitative measurement with interpretable meanings. Our proposed method exceeds the state-of-the-art algorithm by 4-6% in the closed-set recognition accuracy and 4% in F-measure under the open-set on the public benchmark datasets, including our own newly introduced fine-grained OLTR dataset about marine species( MS-LT) , which is the first naturally-distributed OLTR dataset revealing the genuine genetic relationships of the classes.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19887,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19887,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning for Online Algorithm Selection under Censored Feedback,Alexander Tornede;Viktor Bengs;Eyke H\'fcllermeier,"In online algorithm selection( OAS) , instances of an algorithmic problem class are presented to an agent one after another, and the agent has to quickly select a presumably best algorithm from a fixed set of candidate algorithms. For decision problems such as satisfiability( SAT) , quality typically refers to the algorithms runtime. As the latter is known to exhibit a heavy-tail distribution, an algorithm is normally stopped when exceeding a predefined upper time limit. As a consequence, machine learning methods used to optimize an algorithm selection strategy in a data-driven manner need to deal with right-censored samples, a problem that has received little attention in the literature so far. In this work, we revisit multi-armed bandit algorithms for OAS and discuss their capability of dealing with the problem. Moreover, we adapt them towards runtime-oriented losses, allowing for partially censored data while keeping a spaceand time-complexity independent of the time horizon. In an extensive experimental evaluation on an adapted version of the ASlib benchmark, we demonstrate that theoretically well-founded methods based on Thompson sampling perform specifically strong and improve in comparison to existing methods.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21279,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21279,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning for Utility Prediction in Argument-Based Computational Persuasion,Ivan Donadello;Anthony Hunter;Stefano Teso;Mauro Dragoni,"Automated persuasion systems( APS) aim to persuade a user to believe something by entering into a dialogue in which arguments and counterarguments are exchanged. To maximize the probability that an APS is successful in persuading a user, it can identify a global policy that will allow it to select the best arguments it presents at each stage of the dialogue whatever arguments the user presents. However, in real applications, such as for healthcare, it is unlikely the utility of the outcome of the dialogue will be the same, or the exact opposite, for the APS and user. In order to deal with this situation, games in extended form have been harnessed for argumentation in Bi-party Decision Theory. This opens new problems that we address in this paper:( 1) How can we use Machine Learning( ML) methods to predict utility functions for different subpopulations of users? and( 2) How can we identify for a new user the best utility function from amongst those that we have learned. To this extent, we develop two ML methods, EAI and EDS, that leverage information coming from the users to predict their utilities. EAI is restricted to a fixed amount of information, whereas EDS can choose the information that best detects the subpopulations of a user. We evaluate EAI and EDS in a simulation setting and in a realistic case study concerning healthy eating habits. Results are promising in both cases, but EDS is more effective at predicting useful utility functions.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20499,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20499,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Teaching for Inverse Reinforcement Learning: Algorithms and Applications,Daniel S. Brown;Scott Niekum,"Inverse reinforcement learning( IRL) infers a reward function from demonstrations, allowing for policy improvement and generalization. However, despite much recent interest in IRL, little work has been done to understand the minimum set of demonstrations needed to teach a specific sequential decisionmaking task. We formalize the problem of finding maximally informative demonstrations for IRL as a machine teaching problem where the goal is to find the minimum number of demonstrations needed to specify the reward equivalence class of the demonstrator. We extend previous work on algorithmic teaching for sequential decision-making tasks by showing a reduction to the set cover problem which enables an efficient approximation algorithm for determining the set of maximallyinformative demonstrations. We apply our proposed machine teaching algorithm to two novel applications: providing a lower bound on the number of queries needed to learn a policy using active IRL and developing a novel IRL algorithm that can learn more efficiently from informative demonstrations than a standard IRL approach.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4771,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017749,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine-Learned Prediction Equilibrium for Dynamic Traffic Assignment,Lukas Graf;Tobias Harks;Kostas Kollias;Michael Markl,"We study a dynamic traffic assignment model, where agents base their instantaneous routing decisions on real-time delay predictions. We formulate a mathematically concise model and derive properties of the predictors that ensure a dynamic prediction equilibrium exists. We demonstrate the versatility of our framework by showing that it subsumes the well-known full information and instantaneous information models, in addition to admitting further realistic predictors as special cases. We complement our theoretical analysis by an experimental study, in which we systematically compare the induced average travel times of different predictors, including a machine-learning model trained on data gained from previously computed equilibrium flows, both on a synthetic and a real road network.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20438,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20438,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Making Money from What You Know - How to Sell Information?,Shani Alkoby;Zihe Wang;David Sarne;Pingzhong Tang,"Information plays a key role in many decision situations. The rapid advancement in communication technologies makes information providers more accessible, and various information providing platforms can be found nowadays, most of which are strategic in the sense that their goal is to maximize the providers\'92 expected profit. In this paper, we consider the common problem of a strategic information provider offering prospective buyers information which can disambiguate uncertainties the buyers have, which can be valuable for their decision making. Unlike prior work, we do not limit the information provider\'92s strategy to price setting but rather enable her flexibility over the way information is sold, specifically enabling querying about specific outcomes and the elimination of a subset of non-true world states alongside the traditional approach of disclosing the true world state. We prove that for the case where the buyer is self-interested( and the information provider does not know the true world state beforehand) all three methods( i. e. , disclosing the true worldstate value, offering to check a specific value, and eliminating a random value) are equivalent, yielding the same expected profit to the information provider. For the case where buyers are human subjects, using an extensive set of experiments we show that the methods result in substantially different outcomes. Furthermore, using standard machine learning techniques the information provider can rather accurately predict the performance of the different methods for new problem settings, hence substantially increase profit.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4086,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012421,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MALA: Cross-Domain Dialogue Generation with Action Learning,Xinting Huang;Jianzhong Qi;Yu Sun;Rui Zhang,"Response generation for task-oriented dialogues involves two basic components: dialogue planning and surface realization. These two components, however, have a discrepancy in their objectives, i. e. , task completion and language quality. To deal with such discrepancy, conditioned response generation has been introduced where the generation process is factorized into action decision and language generation via explicit action representations. To obtain action representations, recent studies learn latent actions in an unsupervised manner based on the utterance lexical similarity. Such an action learning approach is prone to diversities of language surfaces, which may impinge task completion and language quality. To address this issue, we propose multi-stage adaptive latent action learning( MALA) that learns semantic latent actions by distinguishing the effects of utterances on dialogue progress. We model the utterance effect using the transition of dialogue states caused by the utterance and develop a semantic similarity measurement that estimates whether utterances have similar effects. For learning semantic actions on domains without dialogue states, MALA extends the semantic similarity measurement across domains progressively, i. e. , from aligning shared actions to learning domain-specific actions. Experiments using multi-domain datasets, SMD and MultiWOZ, show that our proposed model achieves consistent improvements over the baselines models in terms of both task completion and language quality.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6306,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6306,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MAPDP: Cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning to Solve Pickup and Delivery Problems,Zefang Zong;Meng Zheng;Yong Li;Depeng Jin,"Cooperative Pickup and Delivery Problem( PDP) , as a variant of the typical Vehicle Routing Problems( VRP) , is an important formulation in many real-world applications, such as on-demand delivery, industrial warehousing, etc. It is of great importance to efficiently provide high-quality solutions of cooperative PDP. However, it is not trivial to provide effective solutions directly due to two major challenges: 1) the structural dependency between pickup and delivery pairs require explicit modeling and representation. 2) the cooperation between different vehicles is highly related to the solution exploration and difficult to model. In this paper, we propose a novel multi-agent reinforcement learning based framework to solve the cooperative PDP( MAPDP). First, we design a paired context embedding to well measure the dependency of different nodes considering their structural limits. Second, we utilize cooperative multi-agent decoders to leverage the decision dependence among different vehicle agents based on a special communication embedding. Third, we design a novel cooperative A2C algorithm to train the integrated model. We conduct extensive experiments on a randomly generated dataset and a real-world dataset. Experiments result shown that the proposed MAPDP outperform all other baselines by at least 1. 64\\\\% in all settings, and shows significant computation speed during solution inference.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21236,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21236,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MAPTree: Beating \'93Optimal\'94 Decision Trees with Bayesian Decision Trees,Colin Sullivan;Mo Tiwari;Sebastian Thrun,"Decision trees remain one of the most popular machine learning models today, largely due to their out-of-the-box performance and interpretability. In this work, we present a Bayesian approach to decision tree induction via maximum a posteriori inference of a posterior distribution over trees. We first demonstrate a connection between maximum a posteriori inference of decision trees and AND/OR search. Using this connection, we propose an AND/OR search algorithm, dubbed MAPTree, which is able to recover the maximum a posteriori tree. Lastly, we demonstrate the empirical performance of the maximum a posteriori tree both on synthetic data and in real world settings. On 16 real world datasets, MAPTree either outperforms baselines or demonstrates comparable performance but with much smaller trees. On a synthetic dataset, MAPTree also demonstrates greater robustness to noise and better generalization than existing approaches. Finally, MAPTree recovers the maxiumum a posteriori tree faster than existing sampling approaches and, in contrast with those algorithms, is able to provide a certificate of optimality. The code for our experiments is available at https://github. com/ThrunGroup/maptree.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28751,10.1609/aaai.v38i8.28751,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining & Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Market-Based Explanations of Collective Decisions,Dominik Peters;Grzegorz Pierczy\uc0\u324 ski;Nisarg Shah;Piotr Skowron,"We consider approval-based committee elections, in which a size-k subset of available candidates must be selected given approval sets for each voter, indicating the candidates approved by the voter. A number of axioms capturing ideas of fairness and proportionality have been proposed for this framework. We argue that even the strongest of them, such as priceability and the core, only rule out certain undesirable committees, but fail to ensure that the selected committee is fair in all cases. We propose two new solution concepts, stable priceability and balanced stable priceability, and show that they select arguably fair committees. Our solution concepts come with a non-trivial-to-construct but easy-to-understand market-based explanation for why the chosen committee is fair. We show that stable priceability is closely related to the notion of Lindahl equilibrium from economics.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16710,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16710,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Market-GAN: Adding Control to Financial Market Data Generation with Semantic Context,Haochong Xia;Shuo Sun;Xinrun Wang;Bo An,"Financial simulators play an important role in enhancing forecasting accuracy, managing risks, and fostering strategic financial decision-making. Despite the development of financial market simulation methodologies, existing frameworks often struggle with adapting to specialized simulation context. We pinpoint the challenges as i) current financial datasets do not contain context labels; ii) current techniques are not designed to generate financial data with context as control, which demands greater precision compared to other modalities; iii) the inherent difficulties in generating context-aligned, high-fidelity data given the non-stationary, noisy nature of financial data. To address these challenges, our contributions are: i) we proposed the Contextual Market Dataset with market dynamics, stock ticker, and history state as context, leveraging a market dynamics modeling method that combines linear regression and clustering to extract market dynamics; ii) we present Market-GAN, a novel architecture incorporating a Generative Adversarial Networks( GAN) for the controllable generation with context, an autoencoder for learning low-dimension features, and supervisors for knowledge transfer; iii) we introduce a two-stage training scheme to ensure that Market-GAN captures the intrinsic market distribution with multiple objectives. In the pertaining stage, with the use of the autoencoder and supervisors, we prepare the generator with a better initialization for the adversarial training stage. We propose a set of holistic evaluation metrics that consider alignment, fidelity, data usability on downstream tasks, and market facts. We evaluate Market-GAN with the Dow Jones Industrial Average data from 2000 to 2023 and showcase superior performance in comparison to 4 state-of-the-art time-series generative models.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29531,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29531,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Markov Decision Processes with Time-Varying Geometric Discounting,Jiarui Gan;Annika Hennes;Rupak Majumdar;Debmalya Mandal;Goran Radanovic,"Canonical models of Markov decision processes( MDPs) usually consider geometric discounting based on a constant discount factor. While this standard modeling approach has led to many elegant results, some recent studies indicate the necessity of modeling time-varying discounting in certain applications. This paper studies a model of infinite-horizon MDPs with time-varying discount factors. We take a game-theoretic perspective \'96 whereby each time step is treated as an independent decision maker with their own( fixed) discount factor \'96 and we study the subgame perfect equilibrium( SPE) of the resulting game as well as the related algorithmic problems. We present a constructive proof of the existence of an SPE and demonstrate the EXPTIME-hardness of computing an SPE. We also turn to the approximate notion of epsilon-SPE and show that an epsilon-SPE exists under milder assumptions. An algorithm is presented to compute an epsilon-SPE, of which an upper bound of the time complexity, as a function of the convergence property of the time-varying discount factor, is provided.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26413,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26413,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Max-Margin Contrastive Learning,Anshul Shah;Suvrit Sra;Rama Chellappa;Anoop Cherian,"Standard contrastive learning approaches usually require a large number of negatives for effective unsupervised learning and often exhibit slow convergence. We suspect this behavior is due to the suboptimal selection of negatives used for offering contrast to the positives. We counter this difficulty by taking inspiration from support vector machines( SVMs) to present max-margin contrastive learning( MMCL). Our approach selects negatives as the sparse support vectors obtained via a quadratic optimization problem, and contrastiveness is enforced by maximizing the decision margin. As SVM optimization can be computationally demanding, especially in an end-to-end setting, we present simplifications that alleviate the computational burden. We validate our approach on standard vision benchmark datasets, demonstrating better performance in unsupervised representation learning over state-of-the-art, while having better empirical convergence properties.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20796,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20796,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MCTS Based on Simple Regret,David Tolpin;Solomon Shimony,"UCT, a state-of-the art algorithm for Monte Carlo tree search( MCTS) in games and Markov decision processes, is based on UCB, a sampling policy for the Multi-armed Bandit problem( MAB) that minimizes the cumulative regret. However, search differs from MAB in that in MCTS it is usually only the final ``arm pull( the actual move selection) that collects a reward, rather than all ``arm pulls. Therefore, it makes more sense to minimize the simple regret, as opposed to the cumulative regret. We begin by introducing policies for multi-armed bandits with lower finite-time and asymptotic simple regret than UCB, using it to develop a two-stage scheme( SR+CR) for MCTS which outperforms UCT empirically. Optimizing the sampling process is itself a metareasoning problem, a solution of which can use value of information( VOI) techniques. Although the theory of VOI for search exists, applying it to MCTS is non-trivial, as typical myopic assumptions fail. Lacking a complete working VOI theory for MCTS, we nevertheless propose a sampling scheme that is ``aware of VOI, achieving an algorithm that in empirical evaluation outperforms both UCT and the other proposed algorithms.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8126,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8126,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Constraints, Satisfiability, and Search",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MDP-Based Cost Sensitive Classification Using Decision Trees,Shlomi Maliah;Guy Shani,"In classification, an algorithm learns to classify a given instance based on a set of observed attribute values. In many real world cases testing the value of an attribute incurs a cost. Furthermore, there can also be a cost associated with the misclassification of an instance. Cost sensitive classification attempts to minimize the expected cost of classification, by deciding after each observed attribute value, which attribute to measure next. In this paper we suggest Markov Decision Processes as a modeling tool for cost sensitive classification. We construct standard decision trees over all attribute subsets, and the leaves of these trees become the state space of our MDP. At each phase we decide on the next attribute to measure, balancing the cost of the measurement and the classification accuracy. We compare our approach to a set of previous approaches, showing our approach to work better for a range of misclassification costs.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11779,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11779,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Melding the Data-Decisions Pipeline: Decision-Focused Learning for Combinatorial Optimization,Bryan Wilder;Bistra Dilkina;Milind Tambe,"Creating impact in real-world settings requires artificial intelligence techniques to span the full pipeline from data, to predictive models, to decisions. These components are typically approached separately: a machine learning model is first trained via a measure of predictive accuracy, and then its predictions are used as input into an optimization algorithm which produces a decision. However, the loss function used to train the model may easily be misaligned with the end goal, which is to make the best decisions possible. Hand-tuning the loss function to align with optimization is a difficult and error-prone process( which is often skipped entirely). We focus on combinatorial optimization problems and introduce a general framework for decision-focused learning, where the machine learning model is directly trained in conjunction with the optimization algorithm to produce highquality decisions. Technically, our contribution is a means of integrating common classes of discrete optimization problems into deep learning or other predictive models, which are typically trained via gradient descent. The main idea is to use a continuous relaxation of the discrete problem to propagate gradients through the optimization procedure. We instantiate this framework for two broad classes of combinatorial problems: linear programs and submodular maximization. Experimental results across a variety of domains show that decisionfocused learning often leads to improved optimization performance compared to traditional methods. We find that standard measures of accuracy are not a reliable proxy for a predictive model\'92s utility in optimization, and our method\'92s ability to specify the true goal as the model\'92s training objective yields substantial dividends across a range of decision problems.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3982,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011658,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Memory Asymmetry Creates Heteroclinic Orbits to Nash Equilibrium in Learning in Zero-Sum Games,Yuma Fujimoto;Kaito Ariu;Kenshi Abe,"Learning in games considers how multiple agents maximize their own rewards through repeated games. Memory, an ability that an agent changes his/her action depending on the history of actions in previous games, is often introduced into learning to explore more clever strategies and discuss the decision-making of real agents like humans. However, such games with memory are hard to analyze because they exhibit complex phenomena like chaotic dynamics or divergence from Nash equilibrium. In particular, how asymmetry in memory capacities between agents affects learning in games is still unclear. In response, this study formulates a gradient ascent algorithm in games with asymmetry memory capacities. To obtain theoretical insights into learning dynamics, we first consider a simple case of zero-sum games. We observe complex behavior, where learning dynamics draw a heteroclinic connection from unstable fixed points to stable ones. Despite this complexity, we analyze learning dynamics and prove local convergence to these stable fixed points, i. e. , the Nash equilibria. We identify the mechanism driving this convergence: an agent with a longer memory learns to exploit the other, which in turn endows the others utility function with strict concavity. We further numerically observe such convergence in various initial strategies, action numbers, and memory lengths. This study reveals a novel phenomenon due to memory asymmetry, providing fundamental strides in learning in games and new insights into computing equilibria.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29688,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29688,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Memory-Augmented Image Captioning,Zhengcong Fei,"Current deep learning-based image captioning systems have been proven to store practical knowledge with their parameters and achieve competitive performances in the public datasets. Nevertheless, their ability to access and precisely manipulate the mastered knowledge is still limited. Besides, providing evidence for decisions and updating memory information are also important yet under explored. Towards this goal, we introduce a memory-augmented method, which extends an existing image caption model by incorporating extra explicit knowledge from a memory bank. Adequate knowledge is recalled according to the similarity distance in the embedding space of history context, and the memory bank can be constructed conveniently from any matched image-text set, e. g. , the previous training data. Incorporating such non-parametric memory-augmented method to various captioning baselines, the performance of resulting captioners imporves consistently on the evaluation benchmark. More encouragingly, extensive experiments demonstrate that our approach holds the capability for efficiently adapting to larger training datasets, by simply transferring the memory bank without any additional training.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16220,10.1609/aaai.v35i2.16220,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Memory-Augmented Temporal Dynamic Learning for Action Recognition,Yuan Yuan;Dong Wang;Qi Wang,"Human actions captured in video sequences contain two crucial factors for action recognition, i. e. , visual appearance and motion dynamics. To model these two aspects, Convolutional and Recurrent Neural Networks( CNNs and RNNs) are adopted in most existing successful methods for recognizing actions. However, CNN based methods are limited in modeling long-term motion dynamics. RNNs are able to learn temporal motion dynamics but lack effective ways to tackle unsteady dynamics in long-duration motion. In this work, we propose a memory-augmented temporal dynamic learning network, which learns to write the most evident information into an external memory module and ignore irrelevant ones. In particular, we present a differential memory controller to make a discrete decision on whether the external memory module should be updated with current feature. The discrete memory controller takes in the memory history, context embedding and current feature as inputs and controls information flow into the external memory module. Additionally, we train this discrete memory controller using straight-through estimator. We evaluate this end-to-end system on benchmark datasets( UCF101 and HMDB51) of human action recognition. The experimental results show consistent improvements on both datasets over prior works and our baselines.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4951,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019167,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MEPSI: An MDL-Based Ensemble Pruning Approach with Structural Information,Xiao-Dong Bi;Shao-Qun Zhang;Yuan Jiang,"Ensemble pruning that combines a subset of individual learners generated in parallel to make predictions is an important topic in ensemble learning. Past decades have developed a lot of pruning algorithms that focus on the external behavior of learners on samples, which may lead to over-fitting. In this paper, we conjecture that the generalization performance of an ensemble is not only related to its external behavior on samples but also dependent on the internal structure of individual learners. We propose the general MEPSI approach based on Kolmogorov complexity and the Minimum Description Length( MDL) principle, which formulates the ensemble pruning task as the two-objective optimization problem that comprises the empirical error and structural information among individual learners. We also provide a concrete implementation of MEPSI on decision trees. The theoretical results provide generalization bounds for both the general MEPSI approach and tree-based implementation. The comparative experiments conducted on multiple real-world data sets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28984,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.28984,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MERCS: Multi-Directional Ensembles of Regression and Classification Trees,Elia Van Wolputte;Evgeniya Korneva;Hendrik Blockeel,"Learning a function f( X) that predicts Y from X is the archetypal Machine Learning( ML) problem. Typically, both sets of attributes( i. e. , X, Y) have to be known before a model can be trained. When this is not the case, or when functions f( X) that predict Y from X are needed for varying X and Y, this may introduce significant overhead( separate learning runs for each function). In this paper, we explore the possibility of omitting the specification of X and Y at training time altogether, by learning a multi-directional, or versatile model, which will allow prediction of any Y from any X. Specifically, we introduce a decision tree-based paradigm that generalizes the well-known Random Forests approach to allow for multi-directionality. The result of these efforts is a novel method called MERCS: Multi-directional Ensembles of Regression and Classification treeS. Experiments show the viability of the approach.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11735,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11735,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Merge or Not? Learning to Group Faces via Imitation Learning,Yue He;Kaidi Cao;Cheng Li;Chen Loy,"Face grouping remains a challenging problem despite the remarkable capability of deep learning approaches in learning face representation. In particular, grouping results can still be egregious given profile faces and a large number of uninteresting faces and noisy detections. Often, a user needs to correct the erroneous grouping manually. In this study, we formulate a novel face grouping framework that learns clustering strategy from ground-truth simulated behavior. This is achieved through imitation learning( a. k. a apprenticeship learning or learning by watching) via inverse reinforcement learning( IRL). In contrast to existing clustering approaches that group instances by similarity, our framework makes sequential decision to dynamically decide when to merge two face instances/groups driven by shortand long-term rewards. Extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets show that our framework outperforms unsupervised and supervised baselines.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12327,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12327,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Merging Statistical Feature via Adaptive Gate for Improved Text Classification,Xianming Li;Zongxi Li;Haoran Xie;Qing Li,"Currently, text classification studies mainly focus on training classifiers by using textual input only, or enhancing semantic features by introducing external knowledge( e. g. , hand-craft lexicons and domain knowledge). In contrast, some intrinsic statistical features of the corpus, like word frequency and distribution over labels, are not well exploited. Compared with external knowledge, the statistical features are deterministic and naturally compatible with corresponding tasks. In this paper, we propose an Adaptive Gate Network( AGN) to consolidate semantic representation with statistical features selectively. In particular, AGN encodes statistical features through a variational component and merges information via a well-designed valve mechanism. The valve adapts the information flow into the classifier according to the confidence of semantic features in decision making, which can facilitate training a robust classifier and can address the overfitting caused by using statistical features. Extensive experiments on datasets of various scales show that, by incorporating statistical information, AGN can improve the classification performance of CNN, RNN, Transformer, and Bert based models effectively. The experiments also indicate the robustness of AGN against adversarial attacks of manipulating statistical information.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17569,10.1609/aaai.v35i15.17569,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Metareasoning in Modular Software Systems: On-the-Fly Configuration Using Reinforcement Learning with Rich Contextual Representations,Aditya Modi;Debadeepta Dey;Alekh Agarwal;Adith Swaminathan;Besmira Nushi;Sean Andrist;Eric Horvitz,"Assemblies of modular subsystems are being pressed into service to perform sensing, reasoning, and decision making in high-stakes, time-critical tasks in areas such as transportation, healthcare, and industrial automation. We address the opportunity to maximize the utility of an overall computing system by employing reinforcement learning to guide the configuration of the set of interacting modules that comprise the system. The challenge of doing system-wide optimization is a combinatorial problem. Local attempts to boost the performance of a specific module by modifying its configuration often leads to losses in overall utility of the systems performance as the distribution of inputs to downstream modules changes drastically. We present metareasoning techniques which consider a rich representation of the input, monitor the state of the entire pipeline, and adjust the configuration of modules on-the-fly so as to maximize the utility of a systems operation. We show significant improvement in both real-world and synthetic pipelines across a variety of reinforcement learning techniques.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5965,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5965,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Metrics and Continuity in Reinforcement Learning,Charline Le Lan;Marc G. Bellemare;Pablo Samuel Castro,"In most practical applications of reinforcement learning, it is untenable to maintain direct estimates for individual states; in continuous-state systems, it is impossible. Instead, researchers often leverage \{\\\\em state similarity\}( whether explicitly or implicitly) to build models that can generalize well from a limited set of samples. The notion of state similarity used, and the neighbourhoods and topologies they induce, is thus of crucial importance, as it will directly affect the performance of the algorithms. Indeed, a number of recent works introduce algorithms assuming the existence of well-behaved neighbourhoods, but leave the full specification of such topologies for future work. In this paper we introduce a unified formalism for defining these topologies through the lens of metrics. We establish a hierarchy amongst these metrics and demonstrate their theoretical implications on the Markov Decision Process specifying the reinforcement learning problem. We complement our theoretical results with empirical evaluations showcasing the differences between the metrics considered.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17005,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.17005,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Min-Max Submodular Ranking for Multiple Agents,Qingyun Chen;Sungjin Im;Benjamin Moseley;Chenyang Xu;Ruilong Zhang,"In the submodular ranking( SR) problem, the input consists of a set of submodular functions defined on a ground set of elements. The goal is to order elements for all the functions to have value above a certain threshold as soon on average as possible, assuming we choose one element per time. The problem is flexible enough to capture various applications in machine learning, including decision trees. This paper considers the min-max version of SR where multiple instances share the ground set. With the view of each instance being associated with an agent, the min-max problem is to order the common elements to minimize the maximum objective of all agents---thus, finding a fair solution for all agents. We give approximation algorithms for this problem and demonstrate their effectiveness in the application of finding a decision tree for multiple agents.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25862,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25862,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Minimax AUC Fairness: Efficient Algorithm with Provable Convergence,Zhenhuan Yang;Yan Lok Ko;Kush R. Varshney;Yiming Ying,"The use of machine learning models in consequential decision making often exacerbates societal inequity, in particular yielding disparate impact on members of marginalized groups defined by race and gender. The area under the ROC curve( AUC) is widely used to evaluate the performance of a scoring function in machine learning, but is studied in algorithmic fairness less than other performance metrics. Due to the pairwise nature of the AUC, defining an AUC-based group fairness metric is pairwise-dependent and may involve both intra-group and inter-group AUCs. Importantly, considering only one category of AUCs is not sufficient to mitigate unfairness in AUC optimization. In this paper, we propose a minimax learning and bias mitigation framework that incorporates both intra-group and inter-group AUCs while maintaining utility. Based on this Rawlsian framework, we design an efficient stochastic optimization algorithm and prove its convergence to the minimum group-level AUC. We conduct numerical experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets to validate the effectiveness of the minimax framework and the proposed optimization algorithm.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26405,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26405,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Minimax Regret Optimisation for Robust Planning in Uncertain Markov Decision Processes,Marc Rigter;Bruno Lacerda;Nick Hawes,"The parameters for a Markov Decision Process( MDP) often cannot be specified exactly. Uncertain MDPs( UMDPs) capture this model ambiguity by defining sets which the parameters belong to. Minimax regret has been proposed as an objective for planning in UMDPs to find robust policies which are not overly conservative. In this work, we focus on planning for Stochastic Shortest Path( SSP) UMDPs with uncertain cost and transition functions. We introduce a Bellman equation to compute the regret for a policy. We propose a dynamic programming algorithm that utilises the regret Bellman equation, and show that it optimises minimax regret exactly for UMDPs with independent uncertainties. For coupled uncertainties, we extend our approach to use options to enable a trade off between computation and solution quality. We evaluate our approach on both synthetic and real-world domains, showing that it significantly outperforms existing baselines.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17417,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17417,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Mining Unfollow Behavior in Large-Scale Online Social Networks via Spatial-Temporal Interaction,Haozhe Wu;Zhiyuan Hu;Jia Jia;Yaohua Bu;Xiangnan He;Tat-Seng Chua,"Online Social Networks( OSNs) evolve through two pervasive behaviors: follow and unfollow, which respectively signify relationship creation and relationship dissolution. Researches on social network evolution mainly focus on the follow behavior, while the unfollow behavior has largely been ignored. Mining unfollow behavior is challenging because users decision on unfollow is not only affected by the simple combination of users attributes like informativeness and reciprocity, but also affected by the complex interaction among them. Meanwhile, prior datasets seldom contain sufficient records for inferring such complex interaction. To address these issues, we first construct a large-scale real-world Weibo1 dataset, which records detailed post content and relationship dynamics of 1. 8 million Chinese users. Next, we define users attributes as two categories: spatial attributes( e. g. , social role of user) and temporal attributes( e. g. , post content of user). Leveraging the constructed dataset, we systematically study how the interaction effects between users spatial and temporal attributes contribute to the unfollow behavior. Afterwards, we propose a novel unified model with heterogeneous information( UMHI) for unfollow prediction. Specifically, our UMHI model: 1) captures users spatial attributes through social network structure; 2) infers users temporal attributes through user-posted content and unfollow history; and 3) models the interaction between spatial and temporal attributes by the nonlinear MLP layers. Comprehensive evaluations on the constructed dataset demonstrate that the proposed UMHI model outperforms baseline methods by 16. 44 on average in terms of precision. In addition, factor analyses verify that both spatial attributes and temporal attributes are essential for mining unfollow behavior.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5358,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5358,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MIP-GNN: A Data-Driven Framework for Guiding Combinatorial Solvers,Elias B. Khalil;Christopher Morris;Andrea Lodi,"Mixed-integer programming( MIP) technology offers a generic way of formulating and solving combinatorial optimization problems. While generally reliable, state-of-the-art MIP solvers base many crucial decisions on hand-crafted heuristics, largely ignoring common patterns within a given instance distribution of the problem of interest. Here, we propose MIP-GNN, a general framework for enhancing such solvers with data-driven insights. By encoding the variable-constraint interactions of a given mixed-integer linear program( MILP) as a bipartite graph, we leverage state-of-the-art graph neural network architectures to predict variable biases, i. e. , component-wise averages of( near) optimal solutions, indicating how likely a variable will be set to 0 or 1 in( near) optimal solutions of binary MILPs. In turn, the predicted biases stemming from a single, once-trained model are used to guide the solver, replacing heuristic components. We integrate MIP-GNN into a state-of-the-art MIP solver, applying it to tasks such as node selection and warm-starting, showing significant improvements compared to the default setting of the solver on two classes of challenging binary MILPs. Our code and appendix are publicly available at https://github. com/lyeskhalil/mipGNN.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21262,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21262,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MIPaaL: Mixed Integer Program as a Layer,Aaron Ferber;Bryan Wilder;Bistra Dilkina;Milind Tambe,"Machine learning components commonly appear in larger decision-making pipelines; however, the model training process typically focuses only on a loss that measures average accuracy between predicted values and ground truth values. Decision-focused learning explicitly integrates the downstream decision problem when training the predictive model, in order to optimize the quality of decisions induced by the predictions. It has been successfully applied to several limited combinatorial problem classes, such as those that can be expressed as linear programs( LP) , and submodular optimization. However, these previous applications have uniformly focused on problems with simple constraints. Here, we enable decision-focused learning for the broad class of problems that can be encoded as a mixed integer linear program( MIP) , hence supporting arbitrary linear constraints over discrete and continuous variables. We show how to differentiate through a MIP by employing a cutting planes solution approach, an algorithm that iteratively tightens the continuous relaxation by adding constraints removing fractional solutions. We evaluate our new end-to-end approach on several real world domains and show that it outperforms the standard two phase approaches that treat prediction and optimization separately, as well as a baseline approach of simply applying decision-focused learning to the LP relaxation of the MIP. Lastly, we demonstrate generalization performance in several transfer learning tasks.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5509,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5509,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Misspecified Linear Bandits,Avishek Ghosh;Sayak Ray Chowdhury;Aditya Gopalan,"We consider the problem of online learning in misspecified linear stochastic multi-armed bandit problems. Regret guarantees for state-of-the-art linear bandit algorithms such as Optimism in the Face of Uncertainty Linear bandit( OFUL) hold under the assumption that the arms expected rewards are perfectly linear in their features. It is, however, of interest to investigate the impact of potential misspecification in linear bandit models, where the expected rewards are perturbed away from the linear subspace determined by the arms features. Although OFUL has recently been shown to be robust to relatively small deviations from linearity, we show that any linear bandit algorithm that enjoys optimal regret performance in the perfectly linear setting( e. g. , OFUL) must suffer linear regret under a sparse additive perturbation of the linear model. In an attempt to overcome this negative result, we define a natural class of bandit models characterized by a non-sparse deviation from linearity. We argue that the OFUL algorithm can fail to achieve sublinear regret even under models that have non-sparse deviation. We finally develop a novel bandit algorithm, comprising a hypothesis test for linearity followed by a decision to use either the OFUL or Upper Confidence Bound( UCB) algorithm. For perfectly linear bandit models, the algorithm provably exhibits OFULs favorable regret performance, while for misspecified models satisfying the non-sparse deviation property, the algorithm avoids the linear regret phenomenon and falls back on UCBs sublinear regret scaling. Numerical experiments on synthetic data, and on recommendation data from the public Yahoo! Learning toRank Challenge dataset, empirically support our findings.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11052,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11052,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Mobile Robot Planning to Seek Help with Spatially-Situated Tasks,Stephanie Rosenthal;Manuela Veloso,"Indoor autonomous mobile service robots can overcome their hardware and potential algorithmic limitations by asking humans for help. In this work, we focus on mobile robots that need human assistance at specific spatially-situated locations( e. g. , to push buttons in an elevator or to make coffee in the kitchen). We address the problem of what the robot should do when there are no humans present at such help locations. As the robots are mobile, we argue that they should plan to proactively seek help and travel to offices or occupied locations to bring people to the help locations. Such planning involves many trade-offs, including the wait time at the help location before seeking help, and the time and potential interruption to find and displace someone in an office. In order to choose appropriate parameters to represent such decisions, we first conduct a survey to understand potential helpers travel preferences in terms of distance, interruptibility, and frequency of providing help. We then use these results to contribute a decision-theoretic algorithm to evaluate the possible choices in offices and plan where to proactively seek help. We demonstrate that our algorithm aims to minimize the number of office interruptions as well as task completion time.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8386,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8386,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robotics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modality-Adaptive Mixup and Invariant Decomposition for RGB-Infrared Person Re-identification,Zhipeng Huang;Jiawei Liu;Liang Li;Kecheng Zheng;Zheng-Jun Zha,"RGB-infrared person re-identification is an emerging cross-modality re-identification task, which is very challenging due to significant modality discrepancy between RGB and infrared images. In this work, we propose a novel modality-adaptive mixup and invariant decomposition( MID) approach for RGB-infrared person re-identification towards learning modality-invariant and discriminative representations. MID designs a modality-adaptive mixup scheme to generate suitable mixed modality images between RGB and infrared images for mitigating the inherent modality discrepancy at the pixel-level. It formulates modality mixup procedure as Markov decision process, where an actor-critic agent learns dynamical and local linear interpolation policy between different regions of cross-modality images under a deep reinforcement learning framework. Such policy guarantees modality-invariance in a more continuous latent space and avoids manifold intrusion by the corrupted mixed modality samples. Moreover, to further counter modality discrepancy and enforce invariant visual semantics at the feature-level, MID employs modality-adaptive convolution decomposition to disassemble a regular convolution layer into modality-specific basis layers and a modality-shared coefficient layer. Extensive experimental results on two challenging benchmarks demonstrate superior performance of MID over state-of-the-art methods.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19987,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19987,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Model and Reinforcement Learning for Markov Games with Risk Preferences,Wenjie Huang;Viet Hai Pham;William Benjamin Haskell,"We motivate and propose a new model for non-cooperative Markov game which considers the interactions of risk-aware players. This model characterizes the time-consistent dynamic \'93risk\'94 from both stochastic state transitions( inherent to the game) and randomized mixed strategies( due to all other players). An appropriate risk-aware equilibrium concept is proposed and the existence of such equilibria is demonstrated in stationary strategies by an application of Kakutanis fixed point theorem. We further propose a simulation-based Q-learning type algorithm for risk-aware equilibrium computation. This algorithm works with a special form of minimax risk measures which can naturally be written as saddle-point stochastic optimization problems, and covers many widely investigated risk measures. Finally, the almost sure convergence of this simulation-based algorithm to an equilibrium is demonstrated under some mild conditions. Our numerical experiments on a two player queuing game validate the properties of our model and algorithm, and demonstrate their worth and applicability in real life competitive decision-making.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5574,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5574,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Model Counting and Sampling via Semiring Extensions,Andreas Goral;Joachim Giesen;Mark Blacher;Christoph Staudt;Julien Klaus,"Many decision and optimization problems have natural extensions as counting problems. The best known example is the Boolean satisfiability problem( SAT) , where we want to count the satisfying assignments of truth values to the variables, which is known as the #SAT problem. Likewise, for discrete optimization problems, we want to count the states on which the objective function attains the optimal value. Both SAT and discrete optimization can be formulated as selective marginalize a product function( MPF) queries. Here, we show how general selective MPF queries can be extended for model counting. MPF queries are encoded as tensor hypernetworks over suitable semirings that can be solved by generic tensor hypernetwork contraction algorithms. Our model counting extension is again an MPF query, on an extended semiring, that can be solved by the same contraction algorithms. Model counting is required for uniform model sampling. We show how the counting extension can be further extended for model sampling by constructing yet another semiring. We have implemented the model counting and sampling extensions. Experiments show that our generic approach is competitive with the state of the art in model counting and model sampling.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30022,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30022,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Model-Agnostic Fits for Understanding Information Seeking Patterns in Humans,Soumya Chatterjee;Pradeep Shenoy,"In decision making tasks under uncertainty, humans display characteristic biases in seeking, integrating, and acting upon information relevant to the task. Here, we reexamine data from previous carefully designed experiments, collected at scale, that measured and catalogued these biases in aggregate form. We design deep learning models that replicate these biases in aggregate, while also capturing individual variation in behavior. A key finding of our work is that paucity of data collected from each individual subject can be overcome by sampling large numbers of subjects from the population, while still capturing individual differences. We predict human behavior with high accuracy without making any assumptions about task goals, reward structure, or individual biases, thus providing a model-agnostic fit to human behavior in the task. Such an approach can sidestep potential limitations in modeler-specified inductive biases, and has implications for computational modeling of human cognitive function in general, and of human-AI interfaces in particular.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16160,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16160,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Cognitive Modeling and Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Model-Based Reinforcement Learning with Multinomial Logistic Function Approximation,Taehyun Hwang;Min-hwan Oh,"We study model-based reinforcement learning( RL) for episodic Markov decision processes( MDP) whose transition probability is parametrized by an unknown transition core with features of state and action. Despite much recent progress in analyzing algorithms in the linear MDP setting, the understanding of more general transition models is very restrictive. In this paper, we propose a provably efficient RL algorithm for the MDP whose state transition is given by a multinomial logistic model. We show that our proposed algorithm based on the upper confidence bounds achieves O( d\uc0\u8730 ( H^3 T) ) regret bound where d is the dimension of the transition core, H is the horizon, and T is the total number of steps. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first model-based RL algorithm with multinomial logistic function approximation with provable guarantees. We also comprehensively evaluate our proposed algorithm numerically and show that it consistently outperforms the existing methods, hence achieving both provable efficiency and practical superior performance.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25964,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.25964,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Model-Free Online Learning in Unknown Sequential Decision Making Problems and Games,Gabriele Farina;Tuomas Sandholm,"Regret minimization has proved to be a versatile tool for tree-form sequential decision making and extensive-form games. In large two-player zero-sum imperfect-information games, modern extensions of counterfactual regret minimization( CFR) are currently the practical state of the art for computing a Nash equilibrium. Most regret-minimization algorithms for tree-form sequential decision making, including CFR, require( i) an exact model of the player\'92s decision nodes, observation nodes, and how they are linked, and( ii) full knowledge, at all times t, about the payoffs\'97even in parts of the decision space that are not encountered at time t. Recently, there has been growing interest towards relaxing some of those restrictions and making regret minimization applicable to settings for which reinforcement learning methods have traditionally been used\'97for example, those in which only black-box access to the environment is available. We give the first, to our knowledge, regret-minimization algorithm that guarantees sublinear regret with high probability even when requirement( i) \'97and thus also( ii) \'97is dropped. We formalize an online learning setting in which the strategy space is not known to the agent and gets revealed incrementally whenever the agent encounters new decision points. We give an efficient algorithm that achieves O( T^3/4) regret with high probability for that setting, even when the agent faces an adversarial environment. Our experiments show it significantly outperforms the prior algorithms for the problem, which do not have such guarantees. It can be used in any application for which regret minimization is useful: approximating Nash equilibrium or quantal response equilibrium, approximating coarse correlated equilibrium in multi-player games, learning a best response, learning safe opponent exploitation, and online play against an unknown opponent/environment.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16678,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16678,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modeling Expert Knowledge in a Heuristic-Based Gin Rummy Agent,Sarah Larkin;William Collicott;Jason Hiebel,"We developed a heuristic-based reflex agent, Tonic, for the EAAI 2021 Undergraduate Research Challenge, which tasks competitors to create an autonomous player to play the card game gin rummy. Tonics heuristics originate in expert knowledge and inform decision making for the three actions comprising a turn: drawing a card, discarding a card, and deciding when to knock. However, because these strategies are based in human intuition, there is often a lack of specificity to directly model them as algorithms. We developed parameterized models describing that intuition based on factors such as the number of turns played and an estimation of the opponent hand. To hone their performance, we conducted both manual analysis and parameter optimization( grid search) using self-play and play against a simple baseline agent. These heuristic models enable Tonic to win against the baseline agent at least 68% of the time.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17834,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17834,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modeling Human Ad Hoc Coordination,Peter Krafft;Chris Baker;Alex Pentland;Joshua Tenenbaum,"Whether in groups of humans or groups of computer agents, collaboration is most effective between individuals who have the ability to coordinate on a joint strategy for collective action. However, in general a rational actor will only intend to coordinate if that actor believes the other group members have the same intention. This circular dependence makes rational coordination difficult in uncertain environments if communication between actors is unreliable and no prior agreements have been made. An important normative question with regard to coordination in these ad hoc settings is therefore how one can come to believe that other actors will coordinate, and with regard to systems involving humans, an important empirical question is how humans arrive at these expectations. We introduce an exact algorithm for computing the infinitely recursive hierarchy of graded beliefs required for rational coordination in uncertain environments, and we introduce a novel mechanism for multiagent coordination that uses it. Our algorithm is valid in any environment with a finite state space, and extensions to certain countably infinite state spaces are likely possible. We test our mechanism for multiagent coordination as a model for human decisions in a simple coordination game using existing experimental data. We then explore via simulations whether modeling humans in this way may improve human-agent collaboration.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9891,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9891,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track: Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modeling Human Trust and Reliance in AI-Assisted Decision Making: A Markovian Approach,Zhuoyan Li;Zhuoran Lu;Ming Yin,"The increased integration of artificial intelligence( AI) technologies in human workflows has resulted in a new paradigm of AI-assisted decision making, in which an AI model provides decision recommendations while humans make the final decisions. To best support humans in decision making, it is critical to obtain a quantitative understanding of how humans interact with and rely on AI. Previous studies often model humans reliance on AI as an analytical process, i. e. , reliance decisions are made based on cost-benefit analysis. However, theoretical models in psychology suggest that the reliance decisions can often be driven by emotions like humans trust in AI models. In this paper, we propose a hidden Markov model to capture the affective process underlying the human-AI interaction in AI-assisted decision making, by characterizing how decision makers adjust their trust in AI over time and make reliance decisions based on their trust. Evaluations on real human behavior data collected from human-subject experiments show that the proposed model outperforms various baselines in accurately predicting humans reliance behavior in AI-assisted decision making. Based on the proposed model, we further provide insights into how humans trust and reliance dynamics in AI-assisted decision making is influenced by contextual factors like decision stakes and their interaction experiences.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25748,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25748,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modeling Textual Cohesion for Event Extraction,Ruihong Huang;Ellen Riloff,"Event extraction systems typically locate the role fillers for an event by analyzing sentences in isolation and identifying each role filler independently of the others. We argue that more accurate event extraction requires a view of the larger context to decide whether an entity is related to a relevant event. We propose a bottom-up approach to event extraction that initially identifies candidate role fillers independently and then uses that information as well as discourse properties to model textual cohesion. The novel component of the architecture is a sequentially structured sentence classifier that identifies event-related story contexts. The sentence classifier uses lexical associations and discourse relations across sentences, as well as domain-specific distributions of candidate role fillers within and across sentences. This approach yields state-of-the-art performance on the MUC-4 data set, achieving substantially higher precision than previous systems.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8354,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8354,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modeling Voters in Multi-Winner Approval Voting,Jaelle Scheuerman;Jason Harman;Nicholas Mattei;K. Brent Venable,"In many real world situations, collective decisions are made using voting and, in scenarios such as committee or board elections, employing voting rules that return multiple winners. In multi-winner approval voting( AV) , an agent submits a ballot consisting of approvals for as many candidates as they wish, and winners are chosen by tallying up the votes and choosing the top-k candidates receiving the most approvals. In many scenarios, an agent may manipulate the ballot they submit in order to achieve a better outcome by voting in a way that does not reflect their true preferences. In complex and uncertain situations, agents may use heuristics instead of incurring the additional effort required to compute the manipulation which most favors them. In this paper, we examine voting behavior in single-winner and multi-winner approval voting scenarios with varying degrees of uncertainty using behavioral data obtained from Mechanical Turk. We find that people generally manipulate their vote to obtain a better outcome, but often do not identify the optimal manipulation. There are a number of predictive models of agent behavior in the social choice and psychology literature that are based on cognitively plausible heuristic strategies. We show that the existing approaches do not adequately model our real-world data. We propose a novel model that takes into account the size of the winning set and human cognitive constraints; and demonstrate that this model is more effective at capturing real-world behaviors in multi-winner approval voting scenarios.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16716,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16716,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modelling and Solving Online Optimisation Problems,Alexander Ek;Maria Garcia de la Banda;Andreas Schutt;Peter J. Stuckey;Guido Tack,"Many optimisation problems are of an online\'97also called dynamic\'97nature, where new information is expected to arrive and the problem must be resolved in an ongoing fashion to( a) improve or revise previous decisions and( b) take new ones. Typically, building an online decision-making system requires substantial ad-hoc coding to ensure the offline version of the optimisation problem is continually adjusted and resolved. This paper defines a general framework for automatically solving online optimisation problems. This is achieved by extending a model of the offline optimisation problem, from which an online version is automatically constructed, thus requiring no further modelling effort. In doing so, it formalises many of the aspects that arise in online optimisation problems. The same framework can be applied for automatically creating sliding-window solving approaches for problems that have a large time horizon. Experiments show we can automatically create efficient online and sliding-window solutions to optimisation problems.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5506,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5506,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modelling Iterative Judgment Aggregation,Zoi Terzopoulou;Ulle Endriss,"We introduce a formal model of iterative judgment aggregation, enabling the analysis of scenarios in which agents repeatedly update their individual positions on a set of issues, before a final decision is made by applying an aggregation rule to these individual positions. Focusing on two popular aggregation rules, the premise-based rule and the plurality rule, we study under what circumstances convergence to an equilibrium can be guaranteed. We also analyse the quality, in social terms, of the final decisions obtained. Our results not only shed light on the parameters that determine whether iteration converges and is socially beneficial, but they also clarify important differences between iterative judgment aggregation and the related framework of iterative voting.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11440,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11440,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Modelling Sentence Pairs via Reinforcement Learning: An Actor-Critic Approach to Learn the Irrelevant Words,Mahtab Ahmed;Robert E. Mercer,"Learning sentence representation is a fundamental task in Natural Language Processing. Most of the existing sentence pair modelling architectures focus only on extracting and using the rich sentence pair features. The drawback of utilizing all of these features makes the learning process much harder. In this study, we propose a reinforcement learning( RL) method to learn a sentence pair representation when performing tasks like semantic similarity, paraphrase identification, and question-answer pair modelling. We formulate this learning problem as a sequential decision making task where the decision made in the current state will have a strong impact on the following decisions. We address this decision making with a policy gradient RL method which chooses the irrelevant words to delete by looking at the sub-optimal representation of the sentences being compared. With this policy, extensive experiments show that our model achieves on par performance when learning task-specific representations of sentence pairs without needing any further knowledge like parse trees. We suggest that the simplicity of each task inference provided by our RL model makes it easier to explain.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6230,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6230,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Models as Agents: Optimizing Multi-Step Predictions of Interactive Local Models in Model-Based Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,Zifan Wu;Chao Yu;Chen Chen;Jianye Hao;Hankz Hankui Zhuo,"Research in model-based reinforcement learning has made significant progress in recent years. Compared to single-agent settings, the exponential dimension growth of the joint state-action space in multi-agent systems dramatically increases the complexity of the environment dynamics, which makes it infeasible to learn an accurate global model and thus necessitates the use of agent-wise local models. However, during multi-step model rollouts, the prediction of one local model can affect the predictions of other local models in the next step. As a result, local prediction errors can be propagated to other localities and eventually give rise to considerably large global errors. Furthermore, since the models are generally used to predict for multiple steps, simply minimizing one-step prediction errors regardless of their long-term effect on other models may further aggravate the propagation of local errors. To this end, we propose Models as AGents( MAG) , a multi-agent model optimization framework that reversely treats the local models as multi-step decision making agents and the current policies as the dynamics during the model rollout process. In this way, the local models are able to consider the multi-step mutual affect between each other before making predictions. Theoretically, we show that the objective of MAG is approximately equivalent to maximizing a lower bound of the true environment return. Experiments on the challenging StarCraft II benchmark demonstrate the effectiveness of MAG.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26241,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26241,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Monitoring Model Deterioration with Explainable Uncertainty Estimation via Non-parametric Bootstrap,Carlos Mougan;Dan Saattrup Nielsen,"Monitoring machine learning models once they are deployed is challenging. It is even more challenging to decide when to retrain models in real-case scenarios when labeled data is beyond reach, and monitoring performance metrics becomes unfeasible. In this work, we use non-parametric bootstrapped uncertainty estimates and SHAP values to provide explainable uncertainty estimation as a technique that aims to monitor the deterioration of machine learning models in deployment environments, as well as determine the source of model deterioration when target labels are not available. Classical methods are purely aimed at detecting distribution shift, which can lead to false positives in the sense that the model has not deteriorated despite a shift in the data distribution. To estimate model uncertainty we construct prediction intervals using a novel bootstrap method, which improves previous state-of-the-art work. We show that both our model deterioration detection system as well as our uncertainty estimation method achieve better performance than the current state-of-the-art. Finally, we use explainable AI techniques to gain an understanding of the drivers of model deterioration. We release an open source Python package, doubt, which implements our proposed methods, as well as the code used to reproduce our experiments.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26755,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26755,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Monte Carlo Tree Search in the Presence of Transition Uncertainty,Farnaz Kohankhaki;Kiarash Aghakasiri;Hongming Zhang;Ting-Han Wei;Chao Gao;Martin M\'fcller,"Monte Carlo Tree Search( MCTS) is an immensely popular search-based framework used for decision making. It is traditionally applied to domains where a perfect simulation model of the environment is available. We study and improve MCTS in the context where the environment model is given but imperfect. We show that the discrepancy between the model and the actual environment can lead to significant performance degradation with standard MCTS. We therefore develop Uncertainty Adapted MCTS( UA-MCTS) , a more robust algorithm within the MCTS framework. We estimate the transition uncertainty in the given model, and direct the search towards more certain transitions in the state space. We modify all four MCTS phases to improve the search behavior by considering these estimates. We prove, in the corrupted bandit case, that adding uncertainty information to adapt UCB leads to tighter regret bound than standard UCB. Empirically, we evaluate UA-MCTS and its individual components on the deterministic domains from the MinAtar test suite. Our results demonstrate that UA-MCTS strongly improves MCTS in the presence of model transition errors.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29994,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.29994,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Moral Permissibility of Action Plans,Felix Lindner;Robert Mattm\'fcller;Bernhard Nebel,"Research in classical planning so far was mainly concerned with generating a satisficing or an optimal plan. However, if such systems are used to make decisions that are relevant to humans, one should also consider the ethical consequences generated plans can have. We address this challenge by analyzing in how far it is possible to generalize existing approaches of machine ethics to automatic planning systems. Traditionally, ethical principles are formulated in an actionbased manner, allowing to judge the execution of one action. We show how such a judgment can be generalized to plans. Further, we study the computational complexity of making ethical judgment about plans.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4757,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017635,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MRI Reconstruction with Interpretable Pixel-Wise Operations Using Reinforcement Learning,Wentian Li;Xidong Feng;Haotian An;Xiang Yao Ng;Yu-Jin Zhang,"Compressed sensing magnetic resonance imaging( CS-MRI) is a technique aimed at accelerating the data acquisition of MRI. While down-sampling in k-space proportionally reduces the data acquisition time, it results in images corrupted by aliasing artifacts and blur. To reconstruct images from the down-sampled k-space, recent deep-learning based methods have shown better performance compared with classical optimization-based CS-MRI methods. However, they usually use deep neural networks as a black-box, which directly maps the corrupted images to the target images from fully-sampled k-space data. This lack of transparency may impede practical usage of such methods. In this work, we propose a deep reinforcement learning based method to reconstruct the corrupted images with meaningful pixel-wise operations( e. g. edge enhancing filters) , so that the reconstruction process is transparent to users. Specifically, MRI reconstruction is formulated as Markov Decision Process with discrete actions and continuous action parameters. We conduct experiments on MICCAI dataset of brain tissues and fastMRI dataset of knee images. Our proposed method performs favorably against previous approaches. Our trained model learns to select pixel-wise operations that correspond to the anatomical structures in the MR images. This makes the reconstruction process more interpretable, which would be helpful for further medical analysis.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5423,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5423,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MTDiag: An Effective Multi-Task Framework for Automatic Diagnosis,Zhenyu Hou;Yukuo Cen;Ziding Liu;Dongxue Wu;Baoyan Wang;Xuanhe Li;Lei Hong;Jie Tang,"Automatic diagnosis systems aim to probe for symptoms( i. e. , symptom checking) and diagnose disease through multi-turn conversations with patients. Most previous works formulate it as a sequential decision process and use reinforcement learning( RL) to decide whether to inquire about symptoms or make a diagnosis. However, these RL-based methods heavily rely on the elaborate reward function and usually suffer from an unstable training process and low data efficiency. In this work, we propose an effective multi-task framework for automatic diagnosis called MTDiag. We first reformulate symptom checking as a multi-label classification task by direct supervision. Each medical dialogue is equivalently converted into multiple samples for classification, which can also help alleviate the data scarcity problem. Furthermore, we design a multi-task learning strategy to guide the symptom checking procedure with disease information and further utilize contrastive learning to better distinguish symptoms between diseases. Extensive experimental results show that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance on four public datasets with 1. 7%~3. 1% improvement in disease diagnosis, demonstrating the superiority of the proposed method. Additionally, our model is now deployed in an online medical consultant system as an assistant tool for real-life doctors.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26666,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26666,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,MUFASA: Multimodal Fusion Architecture Search for Electronic Health Records,Zhen Xu;David R. So;Andrew  M. Dai,"One important challenge of applying deep learning to electronic health records( EHR) is the complexity of their multimodal structure. EHR usually contains a mixture of structured( codes) and unstructured( free-text) data with sparse and irregular longitudinal features -- all of which doctors utilize when making decisions. In the deep learning regime, determining how different modality representations should be fused together is a difficult problem, which is often addressed by handcrafted modeling and intuition. In this work, we extend state-of-the-art neural architecture search( NAS) methods and propose MUltimodal Fusion Architecture SeArch( MUFASA) to simultaneously search across multimodal fusion strategies and modality-specific architectures for the first time. We demonstrate empirically that our MUFASA method outperforms established unimodal NAS on public EHR data with comparable computation costs. In addition, MUFASA produces architectures that outperform Transformer and Evolved Transformer. Compared with these baselines on CCS diagnosis code prediction, our discovered models improve top-5 recall from 0. 88 to 0. 91 and demonstrate the ability to generalize to other EHR tasks. Studying our top architecture in depth, we provide empirical evidence that MUFASAs improvements are derived from its ability to both customize modeling for each modality and find effective fusion strategies.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17260,10.1609/aaai.v35i12.17260,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Agent Discussion Mechanism for Natural Language Generation,Xu Li;Mingming Sun;Ping Li,"We introduce the discussion mechanism into the multiagent communicating encoder-decoder architecture for Natural Language Generation( NLG) tasks and prove that by applying the discussion mechanism, the communication between agents becomes more effective. Generally speaking, an encoder-decoder architecture predicts target-sequence word by word in several time steps. At each time step of prediction, agents with the discussion mechanism predict the target word after several discussion steps. In the first step of discussion, agents make their choice independently and express their decision to other agents. In the next discussion step, agents collect other agents\'92 decision to update their own decisions, then express the updated decisions to others again. After several iterations, the agents make their final decision based on a well-communicated situation. The benefit of the discussion mechanism is that multiple encoders can be designed as different structures to fit the specified input or to fetch different representations of inputs. We train and evaluate the discussion mechanism on Table to Text Generation, Text Summarization and Image Caption tasks, respectively. Our empirical results demonstrate that the proposed multi-agent discussion mechanism is helpful for maximizing the utility of the communication between agents.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4566,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016096,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Agent Incentive Communication via Decentralized Teammate Modeling,Lei Yuan;Jianhao Wang;Fuxiang Zhang;Chenghe Wang;ZongZhang Zhang;Yang Yu;Chongjie Zhang,"Effective communication can improve coordination in cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning( MARL). One popular communication scheme is exchanging agents local observations or latent embeddings and using them to augment individual local policy input. Such a communication paradigm can reduce uncertainty for local decision-making and induce implicit coordination. However, it enlarges agents local policy spaces and increases learning complexity, leading to poor coordination in complex settings. To handle this limitation, this paper proposes a novel framework named Multi-Agent Incentive Communication( MAIC) that allows each agent to learn to generate incentive messages and bias other agents value functions directly, resulting in effective explicit coordination. Our method firstly learns targeted teammate models, with which each agent can anticipate the teammates action selection and generate tailored messages to specific agents. We further introduce a novel regularization to leverage interaction sparsity and improve communication efficiency. MAIC is agnostic to specific MARL algorithms and can be flexibly integrated with different value function factorization methods. Empirical results demonstrate that our method significantly outperforms baselines and achieves excellent performance on multiple cooperative MARL tasks.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21179,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21179,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Class Support Vector Machine with Maximizing Minimum Margin,Feiping Nie;Zhezheng Hao;Rong Wang,"Support Vector Machine( SVM) stands out as a prominent machine learning technique widely applied in practical pattern recognition tasks. It achieves binary classification by maximizing the margin, which represents the minimum distance between instances and the decision boundary. Although many efforts have been dedicated to expanding SVM for multi-class case through strategies such as one versus one and one versus the rest, satisfactory solutions remain to be developed. In this paper, we propose a novel method for multi-class SVM that incorporates pairwise class loss considerations and maximizes the minimum margin. Adhering to this concept, we embrace a new formulation that imparts heightened flexibility to multi-class SVM. Furthermore, the correlations between the proposed method and multiple forms of multi-class SVM are analyzed. The proposed regularizer, akin to the concept of margin, can serve as a seamless enhancement over the softmax in deep learning, providing guidance for network parameter learning. Empirical evaluations demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of our proposed method over existing multi-classification methods. Complete version is available at https://arxiv. org/pdf/2312. 06578. pdf. Code is available at https://github. com/zz-haooo/M3SVM.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29361,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29361,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Classifier Adversarial Optimization for Active Learning,Lin Geng;Ningzhong Liu;Jie Qin,"Active learning( AL) aims to find a better trade-off between labeling costs and model performance by consciously selecting more informative samples to label. Recently, adversarial approaches have emerged as effective solutions. Most of them leverage generative adversarial networks to align feature distributions of labeled and unlabeled data, upon which discriminators are trained to better distinguish between them. However, these methods fail to consider the relationship between unlabeled samples and decision boundaries, and their training processes are often complex and unstable. To this end, this paper proposes a novel adversarial AL method, namely multi-classifier adversarial optimization for active learning( MAOAL). MAOAL employs task-specific decision boundaries for data alignment while selecting the most informative samples to label. To fulfill this, we introduce a novel classifier class confusion( C3) metric, which represents the classifier discrepancy as the inter-class correlation of classifier outputs. Without any additional hyper-parameters, the C3 metric further reduces the negative impacts of ambiguous samples in the process of distribution alignment and sample selection. More concretely, the network is trained adversarially by adding two auxiliary classifiers, reducing the distribution bias of labeled and unlabeled samples by minimizing the C3 loss between classifiers, while learning tighter decision boundaries and highlighting hard samples by maximizing the C3 loss. Finally, the unlabeled samples with the highest C3 loss are selected to label. Extensive experiments demonstrate the superiority of our approach over state-of-the-art AL methods in terms of image classification and object detection.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25932,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25932,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Level Deep Cascade Trees for Conversion Rate Prediction in Recommendation System,Hong Wen;Jing Zhang;Quan Lin;Keping Yang;Pipei Huang,"Developing effective and efficient recommendation methods is very challenging for modern e-commerce platforms. Generally speaking, two essential modules named \'93ClickThrough Rate Prediction\'94( CTR) and \'93Conversion Rate Prediction\'94( CVR) are included, where CVR module is a crucial factor that affects the final purchasing volume directly. However, it is indeed very challenging due to its sparseness nature. In this paper, we tackle this problem by proposing multiLevel Deep Cascade Trees( ldcTree) , which is a novel decision tree ensemble approach. It leverages deep cascade structures by stacking Gradient Boosting Decision Trees( GBDT) to effectively learn feature representation. In addition, we propose to utilize the cross-entropy in each tree of the preceding GBDT as the input feature representation for next level GBDT, which has a clear explanation, i. e. , a traversal from root to leaf nodes in the next level GBDT corresponds to the combination of certain traversals in the preceding GBDT. The deep cascade structure and the combination rule enable the proposed ldcTree to have a stronger distributed feature representation ability. Moreover, inspired by ensemble learning, we propose an Ensemble ldcTree( E-ldcTree) to encourage the model\'92s diversity and enhance the representation ability further. Finally, we propose an improved Feature learning method based on EldcTree( F-EldcTree) for taking adequate use of weak and strong correlation features identified by pretrained GBDT models. Experimental results on off-line data set and online deployment demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/3803,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.3301338,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Mask Label Mapping for Prompt-Based Learning,Jirui Qi;Richong Zhang;Jaein Kim;Junfan Chen;Wenyi Qin;Yongyi Mao,"Prompt-based Learning has shown significant success in few-shot classification. The mainstream approach is to concatenate a template for the input text to transform the classification task into a cloze-type task where label mapping plays an important role in finding the ground-truth labels. While current label mapping methods only use the contexts in one single input, it could be crucial if wrong information is contained in the text. Specifically, it is proved in recent work that even the large language models like BERT/RoBERTa make classification decisions heavily dependent on a specific keyword regardless of the task or the context. Such a word is referred to as a lexical cue and if a misleading lexical cue is included in the instance it will lead the model to make a wrong prediction. We propose a multi-mask prompt-based approach with Multi-Mask Label Mapping( MMLM) to reduce the impact of misleading lexical cues by allowing the model to exploit multiple lexical cues. To satisfy the conditions of few-shot learning, an instance augmentation approach for the cloze-type model is proposed and the misleading cues are gradually excluded through training. We demonstrate the effectiveness of MMLM by both theoretical analysis and empirical studies, and show that MMLM outperforms other existing label mapping approaches.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26579,10.1609/aaai.v37i11.26579,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech & Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Objective Bayesian Optimization with Active Preference Learning,Ryota Ozaki;Kazuki Ishikawa;Youhei Kanzaki;Shion Takeno;Ichiro Takeuchi;Masayuki Karasuyama,"There are a lot of real-world black-box optimization problems that need to optimize multiple criteria simultaneously. However, in a multi-objective optimization( MOO) problem, identifying the whole Pareto front requires the prohibitive search cost, while in many practical scenarios, the decision maker( DM) only needs a specific solution among the set of the Pareto optimal solutions. We propose a Bayesian optimization( BO) approach to identifying the most preferred solution in the MOO with expensive objective functions, in which a Bayesian preference model of the DM is adaptively estimated by an interactive manner based on the two types of supervisions called the pairwise preference and improvement request. To explore the most preferred solution, we define an acquisition function in which the uncertainty both in the objective function and the DM preference is incorporated. Further, to minimize the interaction cost with the DM, we also propose an active learning strategy for the preference estimation. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method through the benchmark function optimization and the hyper-parameter optimization problems for machine learning models.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29364,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29364,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Objective Influence Diagrams with Possibly Optimal Policies,Radu Marinescu;Abdul Razak;Nic Wilson,"The formalism of multi-objective influence diagrams has recently been developed for modeling and solving sequential decision problems under uncertainty and multiple objectives. Since utility values representing the decision makers preferences are only partially ordered( e. g. , by the Pareto order) we no longer have a unique maximal value of expected utility, but a set of them. Computing the set of maximal values of expected utility and the corresponding policies can be computationally very challenging. In this paper, we consider alternative notions of optimality, one of the most important one being the notion of possibly optimal, namely optimal in at least one scenario compatible with the inter-objective tradeoffs. We develop a variable elimination algorithm for computing the set of possibly optimal expected utility values, prove formally its correctness, and compare variants of the algorithm experimentally.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11053,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11053,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Sacle Dynamic Coding Improved Spiking Actor Network for Reinforcement Learning,Duzhen Zhang;Tielin Zhang;Shuncheng Jia;Bo Xu,"With the help of deep neural networks( DNNs) , deep reinforcement learning( DRL) has achieved great success on many complex tasks, from games to robotic control. Compared to DNNs with partial brain-inspired structures and functions, spiking neural networks( SNNs) consider more biological features, including spiking neurons with complex dynamics and learning paradigms with biologically plausible plasticity principles. Inspired by the efficient computation of cell assembly in the biological brain, whereby memory-based coding is much more complex than readout, we propose a multiscale dynamic coding improved spiking actor network( MDC-SAN) for reinforcement learning to achieve effective decision-making. The population coding at the network scale is integrated with the dynamic neurons coding( containing 2nd-order neuronal dynamics) at the neuron scale towards a powerful spatial-temporal state representation. Extensive experimental results show that our MDC-SAN performs better than its counterpart deep actor network( based on DNNs) on four continuous control tasks from OpenAI gym. We think this is a significant attempt to improve SNNs from the perspective of efficient coding towards effective decision-making, just like that in biological networks.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19879,10.1609/aaai.v36i1.19879,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Cognitive Modeling & Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Scale Face Restoration With Sequential Gating Ensemble Network,Jianxin Lin;Tiankuang Zhou;Zhibo Chen,"Restoring face images from distortions is important in face recognition applications and is challenged by multiple scale issues, which is still not well-solved in research area. In this paper, we present a Sequential Gating Ensemble Network( SGEN) for multi-scale face restoration issue. We first employ the principle of ensemble learning into SGEN architecture design to reinforce predictive performance of the network. The SGEN aggregates multi-level base-encoders and base-decoders into the network, which enables the network to contain multiple scales of receptive field. Instead of combining these base-en/decoders directly with non-sequential operations, the SGEN takes base-en/decoders from different levels as sequential data. Specifically, the SGEN learns to sequentially extract high level information from base-encoders in bottom-up manner and restore low level information from base-decoders in top-down manner. Besides, we propose to realize bottom-up and top-down information combination and selection with Sequential Gating Unit( SGU). The SGU sequentially takes two inputs from different levels and decides the output based on one active input. Experiment results demonstrate that our SGEN is more effective at multi-scale human face restoration with more image details and less noise than state-of-the-art image restoration models. By using adversarial training, SGEN also produces more visually preferred results than other models through subjective evaluation.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12296,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12296,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Task Deep Reinforcement Learning with PopArt,Matteo Hessel;Hubert Soyer;Lasse Espeholt;Wojciech Czarnecki;Simon Schmitt;Hado van Hasselt,"The reinforcement learning( RL) community has made great strides in designing algorithms capable of exceeding human performance on specific tasks. These algorithms are mostly trained one task at the time, each new task requiring to train a brand new agent instance. This means the learning algorithm is general, but each solution is not; each agent can only solve the one task it was trained on. In this work, we study the problem of learning to master not one but multiple sequentialdecision tasks at once. A general issue in multi-task learning is that a balance must be found between the needs of multiple tasks competing for the limited resources of a single learning system. Many learning algorithms can get distracted by certain tasks in the set of tasks to solve. Such tasks appear more salient to the learning process, for instance because of the density or magnitude of the in-task rewards. This causes the algorithm to focus on those salient tasks at the expense of generality. We propose to automatically adapt the contribution of each task to the agent\'92s updates, so that all tasks have a similar impact on the learning dynamics. This resulted in state of the art performance on learning to play all games in a set of 57 diverse Atari games. Excitingly, our method learned a single trained policy - with a single set of weights - that exceeds median human performance. To our knowledge, this was the first time a single agent surpassed human-level performance on this multi-task domain. The same approach also demonstrated state of the art performance on a set of 30 tasks in the 3D reinforcement learning platform DeepMind Lab.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4266,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33013796,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Task Recurrent Modular Networks,Dongkuan Xu;Wei Cheng;Xin Dong;Bo Zong;Wenchao Yu;Jingchao Ni;Dongjin Song;Xuchao Zhang;Haifeng Chen;Xiang Zhang,"We consider the models of deep multi-task learning with recurrent architectures that exploit regularities across tasks to improve the performance of multiple sequence processing tasks jointly. Most existing architectures are painstakingly customized to learn task relationships for different problems, which is not flexible enough to model the dynamic task relationships and lacks generalization abilities to novel test-time scenarios. We propose multi-task recurrent modular networks( MT-RMN) that can be incorporated in any multi-task recurrent models to address the above drawbacks. MT-RMN consists of a shared encoder and multiple task-specific decoders, and recurrently operates over time. For better flexibility, it modularizes the encoder into multiple layers of sub-networks and dynamically controls the connection between these sub-networks and the decoders at different time steps, which provides the recurrent networks with varying degrees of parameter sharing for tasks with dynamic relatedness. For the generalization ability, MT-RMN aims to discover a set of generalizable sub-networks in the encoder that are assembled in different ways for different tasks. The policy networks augmented with the differentiable routers are utilized to make the binary connection decisions between the sub-networks. The experimental results on three multi-task sequence processing datasets consistently demonstrate the effectiveness of MT-RMN.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17256,10.1609/aaai.v35i12.17256,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Unit Auction in Social Networks with Budgets,Mingyu Xiao;Yuchao Song;Bakh Khoussainov,"We study multi-unit auctions in social networks, where each buyer has a fixed budget and can spread the sale information to the network neighbors. We design a mechanism encouraging buyers to report their valuations truthfully and spread the sale information. Our design uses the idea of the clinching mechanism to decide the transaction price and can be viewed as a network version of the mechanism. Most of the previous clinching mechanisms search for the transaction prices by increasing the current price. Our mechanism directly computes the transaction prices in polynomial time. Furthermore, the mechanism applies a technique to iteratively activate new buyers in the network. This ensures utility preservations of the buyers and benefits the seller. We prove key properties of our mechanism, such as no-positive-transfers, individual rationality, incentive compatibility, non-wastefulness and social welfare preservation.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20458,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20458,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Unit Bilateral Trade,Matthias Gerstgrasser;Paul W. Goldberg;Bart de Keijzer;Philip Lazos;Alexander Skopalik,"We characterise the set of dominant strategy incentive compatible( DSIC) , strongly budget balanced( SBB) , and ex-post individually rational( IR) mechanisms for the multi-unit bilateral trade setting. In such a setting there is a single buyer and a single seller who holds a finite number k of identical items. The mechanism has to decide how many units of the item are transferred from the seller to the buyer and how much money is transferred from the buyer to the seller. We consider two classes of valuation functions for the buyer and seller: Valuations that are increasing in the number of units in possession, and the more specific class of valuations that are increasing and submodular. Furthermore, we present some approximation results about the performance of certain such mechanisms, in terms of social welfare: For increasing submodular valuation functions, we show the existence of a deterministic 2-approximation mechanism and a randomised e/( 1 \uc0\u8722  e) approximation mechanism, matching the best known bounds for the single-item setting.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4025,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011973,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multi-Winner Contests for Strategic Diffusion in Social Networks,Wen Shen;Yang Feng;Cristina V. Lopes,"Strategic diffusion encourages participants to take active roles in promoting stakeholders\'92 agendas by rewarding successful referrals. As social media continues to transform the way people communicate, strategic diffusion has become a powerful tool for stakeholders to influence people\'92s decisions or behaviors for desired objectives. Existing reward mechanisms for strategic diffusion are usually either vulnerable to falsename attacks or not individually rational for participants that have made successful referrals. Here, we introduce a novel multi-winner contests( MWC) mechanism for strategic diffusion in social networks. The MWC mechanism satisfies several desirable properties, including false-name-proofness, individual rationality, budget constraint, monotonicity, and subgraph constraint. Numerical experiments on four real-world social network datasets demonstrate that stakeholders can significantly boost participants\'92 aggregated efforts with proper design of competitions. Our work sheds light on how to design manipulation-resistant mechanisms with appropriate contests.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4573,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016154,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multiagent Connected Path Planning: PSPACE-Completeness and How to Deal With It,Davide Tateo;Jacopo Banfi;Alessandro Riva;Francesco Amigoni;Andrea Bonarini,"In the Multiagent Connected Path Planning problem( MCPP) , a team of agents moving in a graph-represented environment must plan a set of start-goal joint paths which ensures global connectivity at each time step, under some communication model. The decision version of this problem asking for the existence of a plan that can be executed in at most a given number of steps is claimed to be NP-complete in the literature. The NP membership proof, however, is not detailed. In this paper, we show that, in fact, even deciding whether a feasible plan exists is a PSPACE-complete problem. Furthermore, we present three algorithms adopting different search paradigms, and we empirically show that they may efficiently obtain a feasible plan, if any exists, in different settings.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11587,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11587,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multiagent Decision Making For Maritime Traffic Management,Arambam James Singh;Duc Thien Nguyen;Akshat Kumar;Hoong Chuin Lau,"We address the problem of maritime traffic management in busy waterways to increase the safety of navigation by reducing congestion. We model maritime traffic as a large multiagent systems with individual vessels as agents, and VTS authority as the regulatory agent. We develop a maritime traffic simulator based on historical traffic data that incorporates realistic domain constraints such as uncertain and asynchronous movement of vessels. We also develop a traffic coordination approach that provides speed recommendation to vessels in different zones. We exploit the nature of collective interactions among agents to develop a scalable policy gradient approach that can scale up to real world problems. Empirical results on synthetic and real world problems show that our approach can significantly reduce congestion while keeping the traffic throughput high.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4575,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016171,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multiagent Gumbel MuZero: Efficient Planning in Combinatorial Action Spaces,Xiaotian Hao;Jianye Hao;Chenjun Xiao;Kai Li;Dong Li;Yan Zheng,"AlphaZero and MuZero have achieved state-of-the-art( SOTA) performance in a wide range of domains, including board games and robotics, with discrete and continuous action spaces. However, to obtain an improved policy, they often require an excessively large number of simulations, especially for domains with large action spaces. As the simulation budget decreases, their performance drops significantly. In addition, many important real-world applications have combinatorial( or exponential) action spaces, making it infeasible to search directly over all possible actions. In this paper, we extend AlphaZero and MuZero to learn and plan in more complex multiagent( MA) Markov decision processes, where the action spaces increase exponentially with the number of agents. Our new algorithms, MA Gumbel AlphaZero and MA Gumbel MuZero, respectively without and with model learning, achieve superior performance on cooperative multiagent control problems, while reducing the number of environmental interactions by up to an order of magnitude compared to model-free approaches. In particular, we significantly improve prior performance when planning with much fewer simulation budgets. The code and appendix are available at https://github. com/tjuHaoXiaotian/MA-MuZero.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29121,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29121,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multidimensional Uncertainty-Aware Evidential Neural Networks,Yibo Hu;Yuzhe Ou;Xujiang Zhao;Jin-Hee Cho;Feng Chen,"Traditional deep neural networks( NNs) have significantly contributed to the state-of-the-art performance in the task of classification under various application domains. However, NNs have not considered inherent uncertainty in data associated with the class probabilities where misclassification under uncertainty may easily introduce high risk in decision making in real-world contexts( e. g. , misclassification of objects in roads leads to serious accidents). Unlike Bayesian NN that indirectly infer uncertainty through weight uncertainties, evidential NNs( ENNs) have been recently proposed to explicitly model the uncertainty of class probabilities and use them for classification tasks. An ENN offers the formulation of the predictions of NNs as subjective opinions and learns the function by collecting an amount of evidence that can form the subjective opinions by a deterministic NN from data. However, the ENN is trained as a black box without explicitly considering inherent uncertainty in data with their different root causes, such as vacuity( i. e. , uncertainty due to a lack of evidence) or dissonance( i. e. , uncertainty due to conflicting evidence). By considering the multidimensional uncertainty, we proposed a novel uncertainty-aware evidential NN called WGAN-ENN( WENN) for solving an out-of-distribution( OOD) detection problem. We took a hybrid approach that combines Wasserstein Generative Adversarial Network( WGAN) with ENNs to jointly train a model with prior knowledge of a certain class, which has high vacuity for OOD samples. Via extensive empirical experiments based on both synthetic and real-world datasets, we demonstrated that the estimation of uncertainty by WENN can significantly help distinguish OOD samples from boundary samples. WENN outperformed in OOD detection when compared with other competitive counterparts.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16954,10.1609/aaai.v35i9.16954,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multiobjective Lipschitz Bandits under Lexicographic Ordering,Bo Xue;Ji Cheng;Fei Liu;Yimu Wang;Qingfu Zhang,"This paper studies the multiobjective bandit problem under lexicographic ordering, wherein the learner aims to simultaneously maximize ? objectives hierarchically. The only existing algorithm for this problem considers the multi-armed bandit model, and its regret bound is O( ( KT) ^( 2/3) ) under a metric called priority-based regret. However, this bound is suboptimal, as the lower bound for single objective multi-armed bandits is Omega( KlogT). Moreover, this bound becomes vacuous when the arm number K is infinite. To address these limitations, we investigate the multiobjective Lipschitz bandit model, which allows for an infinite arm set. Utilizing a newly designed multi-stage decision-making strategy, we develop an improved algorithm that achieves a general regret bound of O( T^( ( d_z^i+1) /( d_z^i+2) ) ) for the i-th objective, where d_z^i is the zooming dimension for the i-th objective, with i in \{1, 2,... , m\}. This bound matches the lower bound of the single objective Lipschitz bandit problem in terms of T, indicating that our algorithm is almost optimal. Numerical experiments confirm the effectiveness of our algorithm.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29558,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29558,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,NavGPT: Explicit Reasoning in Vision-and-Language Navigation with Large Language Models,Gengze Zhou;Yicong Hong;Qi Wu,"Trained with an unprecedented scale of data, large language models( LLMs) like ChatGPT and GPT-4 exhibit the emergence of significant reasoning abilities from model scaling. Such a trend underscored the potential of training LLMs with unlimited language data, advancing the development of a universal embodied agent. In this work, we introduce the NavGPT, a purely LLM-based instruction-following navigation agent, to reveal the reasoning capability of GPT models in complex embodied scenes by performing zero-shot sequential action prediction for vision-and-language navigation( VLN). At each step, NavGPT takes the textual descriptions of visual observations, navigation history, and future explorable directions as inputs to reason the agents current status, and makes the decision to approach the target. Through comprehensive experiments, we demonstrate NavGPT can explicitly perform high-level planning for navigation, including decomposing instruction into sub-goals, integrating commonsense knowledge relevant to navigation task resolution, identifying landmarks from observed scenes, tracking navigation progress, and adapting to exceptions with plan adjustment. Furthermore, we show that LLMs is capable of generating high-quality navigational instructions from observations and actions along a path, as well as drawing accurate top-down metric trajectory given the agents navigation history. Despite the performance of using NavGPT to zero-shot R2R tasks still falling short of trained models, we suggest adapting multi-modality inputs for LLMs to use as visual navigation agents and applying the explicit reasoning of LLMs to benefit learning-based models. Code is available at: https://github. com/GengzeZhou/NavGPT.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28597,10.1609/aaai.v38i7.28597,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Near-Optimal Active Learning of Halfspaces via Query Synthesis in the Noisy Setting,Lin Chen;Hamed Hassani;Amin Karbasi,"In this paper, we consider the problem of actively learning a linear classifier through query synthesis where the learner can construct artificial queries in order to estimate the true decision boundaries. This problem has recently gained a lot of interest in automated science and adversarial reverse engineering for which only heuristic algorithms are known. In such applications, queries can be constructed de novo to elicit information( e. g. , automated science) or to evade detection with minimal cost( e. g. , adversarial reverse engineering). We develop a general framework, called dimension coupling( DC) , that 1) reduces a d-dimensional learning problem to d-1 low dimensional sub-problems, 2) solves each sub-problem efficiently, 3) appropriately aggregates the results and outputs a linear classifier, and 4) provides a theoretical guarantee for all possible schemes of aggregation. The proposed method is proved resilient to noise. We show that the DC framework avoids the curse of dimensionality: its computational complexity scales linearly with the dimension. Moreover, we show that the query complexity of DC is near optimal( within a constant factor of the optimum algorithm). To further support our theoretical analysis, we compare the performance of DC with the existing work. We observe that DC consistently outperforms the prior arts in terms of query complexity while often running orders of magnitude faster.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10783,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10783,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Near-Optimal Regret Bounds for Contextual Combinatorial Semi-Bandits with Linear Payoff Functions,Kei Takemura;Shinji Ito;Daisuke Hatano;Hanna Sumita;Takuro Fukunaga;Naonori Kakimura;Ken-ichi Kawarabayashi,"The contextual combinatorial semi-bandit problem with linear payoff functions is a decision-making problem in which a learner chooses a set of arms with the feature vectors in each round under given constraints so as to maximize the sum of rewards of arms. Several existing algorithms have regret bounds that are optimal with respect to the number of rounds T. However, there is a gap of \'d5( max( \uc0\u8730 d, \u8730 k) ) between the current best upper and lower bounds, where d is the dimension of the feature vectors, k is the number of the chosen arms in a round, and \'d5( \'b7) ignores the logarithmic factors. The dependence of k and d is of practical importance because k may be larger than T in real-world applications such as recommender systems. In this paper, we fill the gap by improving the upper and lower bounds. More precisely, we show that the C2UCB algorithm proposed by Qin, Chen, and Zhu( 2014) has the optimal regret bound \'d5( d\u8730 kT + dk) for the partition matroid constraints. For general constraints, we propose an algorithm that modifies the reward estimates of arms in the C2UCB algorithm and demonstrate that it enjoys the optimal regret bound for a more general problem that can take into account other objectives simultaneously. We also show that our technique would be applicable to related problems. Numerical experiments support our theoretical results and considerations.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17177,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17177,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Networked Anti-coordination Games Meet Graphical Dynamical Systems: Equilibria and Convergence,Zirou Qiu;Chen Chen;Madhav V. Marathe;S. S. Ravi;Daniel J. Rosenkrantz;Richard E. Stearns;Anil Vullikanti,"Evolutionary anti-coordination games on networks capture real-world strategic situations such as traffic routing and market competition. Two key problems concerning evolutionary games are the existence of a pure Nash equilibrium( NE) and the convergence time. In this work, we study these two problems for anti-coordination games under sequential and synchronous update schemes. For each update scheme, we examine two decision modes based on whether an agent considers its own previous action( self essential) or not( self non-essential) in choosing its next action. Using a relationship between games and dynamical systems, we show that for both update schemes, finding an NE can be done efficiently under the self non-essential mode but is computationally intractable under the self essential mode. We then identify special cases for which an NE can be obtained efficiently. For convergence time, we show that the dynamics converges in a polynomial number of steps under the synchronous scheme; for the sequential scheme, the convergence time is polynomial only under the self non-essential mode. Through experiments, we empirically examine the convergence time and the equilibria for both synthetic and real-world networks.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26378,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26378,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Neural Network Approximation for Pessimistic Offline Reinforcement Learning,Di Wu;Yuling Jiao;Li Shen;Haizhao Yang;Xiliang Lu,"Deep reinforcement learning( RL) has shown remarkable success in specific offline decision-making scenarios, yet its theoretical guarantees are still under development. Existing works on offline RL theory primarily emphasize a few trivial settings, such as linear MDP or general function approximation with strong assumptions and independent data, which lack guidance for practical use. The coupling of deep learning and Bellman residuals makes this problem challenging, in addition to the difficulty of data dependence. In this paper, we establish a non-asymptotic estimation error of pessimistic offline RL using general neural network approximation with C-mixing data regarding the structure of networks, the dimension of datasets, and the concentrability of data coverage, under mild assumptions. Our result shows that the estimation error consists of two parts: the first converges to zero at a desired rate on the sample size with partially controllable concentrability, and the second becomes negligible if the residual constraint is tight. This result demonstrates the explicit efficiency of deep adversarial offline RL frameworks. We utilize the empirical process tool for C-mixing sequences and the neural network approximation theory for the Holder class to achieve this. We also develop methods to bound the Bellman estimation error caused by function approximation with empirical Bellman constraint perturbations. Additionally, we present a result that lessens the curse of dimensionality using data with low intrinsic dimensionality and function classes with low complexity. Our estimation provides valuable insights into the development of deep offline RL and guidance for algorithm model design.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29517,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29517,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Neural Policy Safety Verification via Predicate Abstraction: CEGAR,Marcel Vinzent;Siddhant Sharma;J\'f6erg Hoffmann,"Neural networks( NN) are an increasingly important representation of action policies pi. Recent work has extended predicate abstraction to prove safety of such pi, through policy predicate abstraction( PPA) which over-approximates the state space subgraph induced by pi. The advantage of PPA is that reasoning about the NN \'96 calls to SMT solvers \'96 is required only locally, at individual abstract state transitions, in contrast to bounded model checking( BMC) where SMT must reason globally about sequences of NN decisions. Indeed, it has been shown that PPA can outperform a simple BMC implementation. However, the abstractions underlying these results( i. e. , the abstraction predicates) were supplied manually. Here we automate this step. We extend counterexample guided abstraction refinement( CEGAR) to PPA. This involves dealing with a new source of spuriousness in abstract unsafe paths, pertaining not to transition behavior but to the decisions of the neural network pi. We introduce two methods tackling this issue based on the states involved, and we show that global SMT calls deciding spuriousness exactly can be avoided. We devise algorithmic enhancements leveraging incremental computation and heuristic search. We show empirically that the resulting verification tool has significant advantages over an encoding into the state-of-the-art model checker nuXmv. In particular, ours is the only approach in our experiments that succeeds in proving policies safe.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26772,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26772,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,No-Reference Image Quality Assessment with Reinforcement Recursive List-Wise Ranking,Jie Gu;Gaofeng Meng;Cheng Da;Shiming Xiang;Chunhong Pan,"Opinion-unaware no-reference image quality assessment( NR-IQA) methods have received many interests recently because they do not require images with subjective scores for training. Unfortunately, it is a challenging task, and thus far no opinion-unaware methods have shown consistently better performance than the opinion-aware ones. In this paper, we propose an effective opinion-unaware NR-IQA method based on reinforcement recursive list-wise ranking. We formulate the NR-IQA as a recursive list-wise ranking problem which aims to optimize the whole quality ordering directly. During training, the recursive ranking process can be modeled as a Markov decision process( MDP). The ranking list of images can be constructed by taking a sequence of actions, and each of them refers to selecting an image for a specific position of the ranking list. Reinforcement learning is adopted to train the model parameters, in which no ground-truth quality scores or ranking lists are necessary for learning. Experimental results demonstrate the superior performance of our approach compared with existing opinion-unaware NR-IQA methods. Furthermore, our approach can compete with the most effective opinion-aware methods. It improves the state-of-the-art by over 2% on the CSIQ benchmark and outperforms most compared opinion-aware models on TID2013.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4847,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33018336,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,NoiseGrad \'97 Enhancing Explanations by Introducing Stochasticity to Model Weights,Kirill Bykov;Anna Hedstr\'f6m;Shinichi Nakajima;Marina M.-C. H\'f6hne,"Many efforts have been made for revealing the decision-making process of black-box learning machines such as deep neural networks, resulting in useful local and global explanation methods. For local explanation, stochasticity is known to help: a simple method, called SmoothGrad, has improved the visual quality of gradient-based attribution by adding noise to the input space and averaging the explanations of the noisy inputs. In this paper, we extend this idea and propose NoiseGrad that enhances both local and global explanation methods. Specifically, NoiseGrad introduces stochasticity in the weight parameter space, such that the decision boundary is perturbed. NoiseGrad is expected to enhance the local explanation, similarly to SmoothGrad, due to the dual relationship between the input perturbation and the decision boundary perturbation. We evaluate NoiseGrad and its fusion with SmoothGrad - FusionGrad - qualitatively and quantitatively with several evaluation criteria, and show that our novel approach significantly outperforms the baseline methods. Both NoiseGrad and FusionGrad are method-agnostic and as handy as SmoothGrad using a simple heuristic for the choice of the hyperparameter setting without the need of fine-tuning.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20561,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20561,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Non-Compensatory Psychological Models for Recommender Systems,Chen Lin;Xiaolin Shen;Si Chen;Muhua Zhu;Yanghua Xiao,"The study of consumer psychology reveals two categories of consumption decision procedures: compensatory rules and non-compensatory rules. Existing recommendation models which are based on latent factor models assume the consumers follow the compensatory rules, i. e. they evaluate an item over multiple aspects and compute a weighted or/and summated score which is used to derive the rating or ranking of the item. However, it has been shown in the literature of consumer behavior that, consumers adopt non-compensatory rules more often than compensatory rules. Our main contribution in this paper is to study the unexplored area of utilizing non-compensatory rules in recommendation models. Our general assumptions are( 1) there are K universal hidden aspects. In each evaluation session, only one aspect is chosen as the prominent aspect according to user preference. ( 2) Evaluations over prominent and non-prominent aspects are non-compensatory. Evaluation is mainly based on item performance on the prominent aspect. For non-prominent aspects the user sets a minimal acceptable threshold. We give a conceptual model for these general assumptions. We show how this conceptual model can be realized in both pointwise rating prediction models and pair-wise ranking prediction models. Experiments on real-world data sets validate that adopting non-compensatory rules improves recommendation performance for both rating and ranking models.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4339,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014304,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Non-Discriminatory Machine Learning Through Convex Fairness Criteria,Naman Goel;Mohammad Yaghini;Boi Faltings,"Biased decision making by machine learning systems is increasingly recognized as an important issue. Recently, techniques have been proposed to learn non-discriminatory classifiers by enforcing constraints in the training phase. Such constraints are either non-convex in nature( posing computational difficulties) or don\'92t have a clear probabilistic interpretation. Moreover, the techniques offer little understanding of the more subjective notion of fairness. In this paper, we introduce a novel technique to achieve non-discrimination without sacrificing convexity and probabilistic interpretation. Our experimental analysis demonstrates the success of the method on popular real datasets including ProPublica\'92s COMPAS dataset. We also propose a new notion of fairness for machine learning and show that our technique satisfies this subjective fairness criterion.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11662,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11662,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Non-exemplar Online Class-Incremental Continual Learning via Dual-Prototype Self-Augment and Refinement,Fushuo Huo;Wenchao Xu;Jingcai Guo;Haozhao Wang;Yunfeng Fan,"This paper investigates a new, practical, but challenging problem named Non-exemplar Online Class-incremental continual Learning( NO-CL) , which aims to preserve the discernibility of base classes without buffering data examples and efficiently learn novel classes continuously in a single-pass( i. e. , online) data stream. The challenges of this task are mainly two-fold:( 1) Both base and novel classes suffer from severe catastrophic forgetting as no previous samples are available for replay. ( 2) As the online data can only be observed once, there is no way to fully re-train the whole model, e. g. , re-calibrate the decision boundaries via prototype alignment or feature distillation. In this paper, we propose a novel Dual-prototype Self-augment and Refinement method( DSR) for NO-CL problem, which consists of two strategies: 1) Dual class prototypes: vanilla and high-dimensional prototypes are exploited to utilize the pre-trained information and obtain robust quasi-orthogonal representations rather than example buffers for both privacy preservation and memory reduction. 2) Self-augment and refinement: Instead of updating the whole network, we optimize high-dimensional prototypes alternatively with the extra projection module based on self-augment vanilla prototypes, through a bi-level optimization problem. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness and superiority of the proposed DSR in NO-CL.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29165,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29165,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Non-Model-Based Search Guidance for Set Partitioning Problems,Serdar Kadioglu;Yuri Malitsky;Meinolf Sellmann,We present a dynamic branching scheme for set partitioning problems. The idea is to trace features of the underlying MIP model and to base search decisions on the features of the current subproblem to be solved. We show how such a system can be trained efficiently by introducing minimal learning bias that traditional model-based machine learning approaches rely on. Experiments on a highly heterogeneous collection of set partitioning instances show significant gains over dynamic search guidance in Cplex as well as instance-specifically tuned pure search heuristics.,2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8141,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8141,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Constraints, Satisfiability, and Search",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Non-stationary Risk-Sensitive Reinforcement Learning: Near-Optimal Dynamic Regret, Adaptive Detection, and Separation Design",Yuhao Ding;Ming Jin;Javad Lavaei,"We study risk-sensitive reinforcement learning( RL) based on an entropic risk measure in episodic non-stationary Markov decision processes( MDPs). Both the reward functions and the state transition kernels are unknown and allowed to vary arbitrarily over time with a budget on their cumulative variations. When this variation budget is known a prior, we propose two restart-based algorithms, namely Restart-RSMB and Restart-RSQ, and establish their dynamic regrets. Based on these results, we further present a meta-algorithm that does not require any prior knowledge of the variation budget and can adaptively detect the non-stationarity on the exponential value functions. A dynamic regret lower bound is then established for non-stationary risk-sensitive RL to certify the near-optimality of the proposed algorithms. Our results also show that the risk control and the handling of the non-stationarity can be separately designed in the algorithm if the variation budget is known a prior, while the non-stationary detection mechanism in the adaptive algorithm depends on the risk parameter. This work offers the first non-asymptotic theoretical analyses for the non-stationary risk-sensitive RL in the literature.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25901,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25901,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,NondBREM: Nondeterministic Offline Reinforcement Learning for Large-Scale Order Dispatching,Hongbo Zhang;Guang Wang;Xu Wang;Zhengyang Zhou;Chen Zhang;Zheng Dong;Yang Wang,"One of the most important tasks in ride-hailing is order dispatching, i. e. , assigning unserved orders to available drivers. Recent order dispatching has achieved a significant improvement due to the advance of reinforcement learning, which has been approved to be able to effectively address sequential decision-making problems like order dispatching. However, most existing reinforcement learning methods require agents to learn the optimal policy by interacting with environments online, which is challenging or impractical for real-world deployment due to high costs or safety concerns. For example, due to the spatiotemporally unbalanced supply and demand, online reinforcement learning-based order dispatching may significantly impact the revenue of the ride-hailing platform and passenger experience during the policy learning period. Hence, in this work, we develop an offline deep reinforcement learning framework called NondBREM for large-scale order dispatching, which learns policy from only the accumulated logged data to avoid costly and unsafe interactions with the environment. In NondBREM, a Nondeterministic Batch-Constrained Q-learning( NondBCQ) module is developed to reduce the algorithm extrapolation error and a Random Ensemble Mixture( REM) module that integrates multiple value networks with multi-head networks is utilized to improve the model generalization and robustness. Extensive experiments on large-scale real-world ride-hailing datasets show the superiority of our design.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/27794,10.1609/aaai.v38i1.27794,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Norm Conflict Resolution in Stochastic Domains,Daniel Kasenberg;Matthias Scheutz,"Artificial agents will need to be aware of human moral and social norms, and able to use them in decision-making. In particular, artificial agents will need a principled approach to managing conflicting norms, which are common in human social interactions. Existing logic-based approaches suffer from normative explosion and are typically designed for deterministic environments; reward-based approaches lack principled ways of determining which normative alternatives exist in a given environment. We propose a hybrid approach, using Linear Temporal Logic( LTL) representations in Markov Decision Processes( MDPs) , that manages norm conflicts in a systematic manner while accommodating domain stochasticity. We provide a proof-of-concept implementation in a simulated vacuum cleaning domain.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11295,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11295,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Novel Exploration Techniques( NETs) for Malaria Policy Interventions,Oliver Bent;Sekou Remy;Stephen Roberts;Aisha Walcott-Bryant,"The task of decision-making under uncertainty is daunting, especially for problems which have significant complexity. Healthcare policy makers across the globe are facing problems under challenging constraints, with limited tools to help them make data driven decisions. In this work we frame the process of finding an optimal malaria policy as a stochastic multi-armed bandit problem, and implement three agent based strategies to explore the policy space. We apply a Gaussian Process regression to the findings of each agent, both for comparison and to account for stochastic results from simulating the spread of malaria in a fixed population. The generated policy spaces are compared with published results to give a direct reference with human expert decisions for the same simulated population. Our novel approach provides a powerful resource for policy makers, and a platform which can be readily extended to capture future more nuanced policy spaces.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11410,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11410,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI18 - Emerging,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Off-Policy Evaluation in Partially Observable Environments,Guy Tennenholtz;Uri Shalit;Shie Mannor,"This work studies the problem of batch off-policy evaluation for Reinforcement Learning in partially observable environments. Off-policy evaluation under partial observability is inherently prone to bias, with risk of arbitrarily large errors. We define the problem of off-policy evaluation for Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes( POMDPs) and establish what we believe is the first off-policy evaluation result for POMDPs. In addition, we formulate a model in which observed and unobserved variables are decoupled into two dynamic processes, called a Decoupled POMDP. We show how off-policy evaluation can be performed under this new model, mitigating estimation errors inherent to general POMDPs. We demonstrate the pitfalls of off-policy evaluation in POMDPs using a well-known off-policy method, Importance Sampling, and compare it with our result on synthetic medical data.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6590,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6590,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Off-Policy Proximal Policy Optimization,Wenjia Meng;Qian Zheng;Gang Pan;Yilong Yin,"Proximal Policy Optimization( PPO) is an important reinforcement learning method, which has achieved great success in sequential decision-making problems. However, PPO faces the issue of sample inefficiency, which is due to the PPO cannot make use of off-policy data. In this paper, we propose an Off-Policy Proximal Policy Optimization method( Off-Policy PPO) that improves the sample efficiency of PPO by utilizing off-policy data. Specifically, we first propose a clipped surrogate objective function that can utilize off-policy data and avoid excessively large policy updates. Next, we theoretically clarify the stability of the optimization process of the proposed surrogate objective by demonstrating the degree of policy update distance is consistent with that in the PPO. We then describe the implementation details of the proposed Off-Policy PPO which iteratively updates policies by optimizing the proposed clipped surrogate objective. Finally, the experimental results on representative continuous control tasks validate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods on most tasks.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26099,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26099,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Omega-Regular Decision Processes,Ernst Moritz Hahn;Mateo Perez;Sven Schewe;Fabio Somenzi;Ashutosh Trivedi;Dominik Wojtczak,"Regular decision processes( RDPs) are a subclass of non-Markovian decision processes where the transition and reward functions are guarded by some regular property of the past( a lookback). While RDPs enable intuitive and succinct representation of non-Markovian decision processes, their expressive power coincides with finite-state Markov decision processes( MDPs). We introduce omega-regular decision processes( ODPs) where the non-Markovian aspect of the transition and reward functions are extended to an omega-regular lookahead over the system evolution. Semantically, these lookaheads can be considered as promises made by the decision maker or the learning agent about her future behavior. In particular, we assume that, if the promised lookaheads are not met, then the payoff to the decision maker is falsum( least desirable payoff) , overriding any rewards collected by the decision maker. We enable optimization and learning for ODPs under the discounted-reward objective by reducing them to lexicographic optimization and learning over finite MDPs. We present experimental results demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed reduction.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30105,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30105,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On Continuous Local BDD-Based Search for Hybrid SAT Solving,Anastasios Kyrillidis;Moshe Vardi;Zhiwei Zhang,"We explore the potential of continuous local search( CLS) in SAT solving by proposing a novel approach for finding a solution of a hybrid system of Boolean constraints. The algorithm is based on CLS combined with belief propagation on binary decision diagrams( BDDs). Our framework accepts all Boolean constraints that admit compact BDDs, including symmetric Boolean constraints and small-coefficient pseudo-Boolean constraints as interesting families. We propose a novel algorithm for efficiently computing the gradient needed by CLS. We study the capabilities and limitations of our versatile CLS solver, GradSAT, by applying it on many benchmark instances. The experimental results indicate that GradSAT can be a useful addition to the portfolio of existing SAT and MaxSAT solvers for solving Boolean satisfiability and optimization problems.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16502,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16502,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On Covering Codes and Upper Bounds for the Dimension of Simple Games,Martin Olsen,"Consider a situation with n agents or players, where some of the players form a coalition with a certain collective objective. Simple games are used to model systems that can decide whether coalitions are successful( winning) or not( losing). A simple game can be viewed as a monotone boolean function. The dimension of a simple game is the smallest positive integer d such that the simple game can be expressed as the intersection of d threshold functions, where each threshold function uses a threshold and n weights. Taylor and Zwicker have shown that d is bounded from above by the number of maximal losing coalitions. We present two new upper bounds both containing the Taylor-Zwicker bound as a special case. The Taylor-Zwicker bound implies an upper bound of( n choose n/2). We improve this upper bound significantly by showing constructively that d is bounded from above by the cardinality of any binary covering code with length n and covering radius 1. This result supplements a recent result where Olsen et al. showed how to construct simple games with dimension |C| for any binary constant weight SECDED code C with length n. Our result represents a major step in the attempt to close the dimensionality gap for simple games.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10572,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10572,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On Recognising Nearly Single-Crossing Preferences,Florian Jaeckle;Dominik Peters;Edith Elkind,"If voters preferences are one-dimensional, many hard problems in computational social choice become tractable. A preference profile can be classified as one-dimensional if it has the single-crossing property, which requires that the voters can be ordered from left to right so that their preferences are consistent with this order. In practice, preferences may exhibit some one-dimensional structure, despite not being single-crossing in the formal sense. Hence, we ask whether one can identify preference profiles that are close to being single-crossing. We consider three distance measures, which are based on partitioning voters or candidates or performing a small number of swaps in each vote. We prove that it can be efficiently decided if voters can be split into two single-crossing groups. Also, for every fixed k >= 1 we can decide in polynomial time if a profile can be made single-crossing by performing at most k candidate swaps per vote. In contrast, for each k >= 3 it is NP-complete to decide whether candidates can be partitioned into k sets so that the restriction of the input profile to each set is single-crossing.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11461,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11461,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On Testing for Discrimination Using Causal Models,Hana Chockler;Joseph Y. Halpern,"Consider a bank that uses an AI system to decide which loan applications to approve. We want to ensure that the system is fair, that is, it does not discriminate against applicants based on a predefined list of sensitive attributes, such as gender and ethnicity. We expect there to be a regulator whose job it is to certify the bank\'92s system as fair or unfair. We consider issues that the regulator will have to confront when making such a decision, including the precise definition of fairness, dealing with proxy variables, and dealing with what we call allowed variables, that is, variables such as salary on which the decision is allowed to depend, despite being correlated with sensitive variables. We show( among other things) that the problem of deciding fairness as we have defined it is co-NP-complete, but then argue that, despite that, in practice the problem should be manageable.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20494,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20494,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Calibration and Uncertainty with P\'f3lya-Gamma Augmentation for Dialog Retrieval Models,Tong Ye;Shijing Si;Jianzong Wang;Ning Cheng;Zhitao Li;Jing Xiao,"Deep neural retrieval models have amply demonstrated their power but estimating the reliability of their predictions remains challenging. Most dialog response retrieval models output a single score for a response on how relevant it is to a given question. However, the bad calibration of deep neural network results in various uncertainty for the single score such that the unreliable predictions always misinform user decisions. To investigate these issues, we present an efficient calibration and uncertainty estimation framework PG-DRR for dialog response retrieval models which adds a Gaussian Process layer to a deterministic deep neural network and recovers conjugacy for tractable posterior inference by P\'f3lya-Gamma augmentation. Finally, PG-DRR achieves the lowest empirical calibration error( ECE) in the in-domain datasets and the distributional shift task while keeping R10@1 and MAP performance.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26630,10.1609/aaai.v37i11.26630,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech & Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Challenges of Using Reinforcement Learning in Precision Drug Dosing: Delay and Prolongedness of Action Effects,Sumana Basu;Marc-Andr\'e9 Legault;Adriana Romero-Soriano;Doina Precup,"Drug dosing is an important application of AI, which can be formulated as a Reinforcement Learning( RL) problem. In this paper, we identify two major challenges of using RL for drug dosing: delayed and prolonged effects of administering medications, which break the Markov assumption of the RL framework. We focus on prolongedness and define PAE-POMDP( Prolonged Action Effect-Partially Observable Markov Decision Process) , a subclass of POMDPs in which the Markov assumption does not hold specifically due to prolonged effects of actions. Motivated by the pharmacology literature, we propose a simple and effective approach to converting drug dosing PAE-POMDPs into MDPs, enabling the use of the existing RL algorithms to solve such problems. We validate the proposed approach on a toy task, and a challenging glucose control task, for which we devise a clinically-inspired reward function. Our results demonstrate that:( 1) the proposed method to restore the Markov assumption leads to significant improvements over a vanilla baseline;( 2) the approach is competitive with recurrent policies which may inherently capture the prolonged affect of actions;( 3) it is remarkably more time and memory efficient than the recurrent baseline and hence more suitable for real-time dosing control systems; and( 4) it exhibits favourable qualitative behavior in our policy analysis.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26650,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26650,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Complexity of Extended and Proportional Justified Representation,Haris Aziz;Edith Elkind;Shenwei Huang;Martin Lackner;Luis Sanchez-Fernandez;Piotr Skowron,"We consider the problem of selecting a fixed-size committee based on approval ballots. It is desirable to have a committee in which all voters are fairly represented. Aziz et al. ( 2015a; 2017) proposed an axiom called extended justified representation( EJR) , which aims to capture this intuition; subsequently, Sanchez-Fernandez et al. ( 2017) proposed a weaker variant of this axiom called proportional justified representation( PJR). It was shown that it is coNP-complete to check whether a given committee provides EJR, and it was conjectured that it is hard to find a committee that provides EJR. In contrast, there are polynomial-time computable voting rules that output committees providing PJR, but the complexity of checking whether a given committee provides PJR was an open problem. In this paper, we answer open questions from prior work by showing that EJR and PJR have the same worst-case complexity: we provide two polynomial-time algorithms that output committees providing EJR, yet we show that it is coNP-complete to decide whether a given committee provides PJR. We complement the latter result by fixed-parameter tractability results.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11478,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11478,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Complexity of Finding Justifications for Collective Decisions,Arthur Boixel;Ronald de Haan,"In a collective decision-making process, having the possibility to provide non-expert agents with a justification for why a target outcome is a good compromise given their individual preferences, is an appealing idea. Such questions have recently been addressed in the computational social choice community at large---whether it was to explain the outcomes of a specific rule in voting theory or to seek transparency and accountability in multi-criteria decision making. Ultimately, the development of real-life applications based on these notions depends on their practical feasibility and on the scalability of the approach taken. In this paper, we provide computational complexity results that address the problem of finding and verifying justifications for collective decisions. In particular, we focus on the recent development of a general notion of justification for outcomes in voting theory. Such a justification consists of a step-by-step explanation, grounded in a normative basis, showing how the selection of the target outcome follows from the normative principles considered. We consider a language in which normative principles can be encoded---either as an explicit list of instances of the principles( by means of quantifier-free sentences) , or in a succinct fashion( using quantifiers). We then analyse the computational complexity of identifying and checking justifications. For the case where the normative principles are given in the form of a list of instances, verifying the correctness of a justification is DP-complete and deciding on the existence of such a justification is complete for Sigma 2 P. For the case where the normative principles are given succinctly, deciding whether a justification is correct is in NEXP wedge coNEXP, and NEXP-hard, and deciding whether a justification exists is in EXP with access to an NP oracle and is NEXP-hard.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16656,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16656,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Computation of Necessary and Sufficient Explanations,Adnan Darwiche;Chunxi Ji,"The complete reason behind a decision is a Boolean formula that characterizes why the decision was made. This recently introduced notion has a number of applications, which include generating explanations, detecting decision bias and evaluating counterfactual queries. Prime implicants of the complete reason are known as sufficient reasons for the decision and they correspond to what is known as PI explanations and abductive explanations. In this paper, we refer to the prime implicates of a complete reason as necessary reasons for the decision. We justify this terminology semantically and show that necessary reasons correspond to what is known as contrastive explanations. We also study the computation of complete reasons for multi-class decision trees and graphs with nominal and numeric features for which we derive efficient, closed-form complete reasons. We further investigate the computation of shortest necessary and sufficient reasons for a broad class of complete reasons, which include the derived closed forms and the complete reasons for Sentential Decision Diagrams( SDDs). We provide an algorithm which can enumerate their shortest necessary reasons in output polynomial time. Enumerating shortest sufficient reasons for this class of complete reasons is hard even for a single reason. For this problem, we provide an algorithm that appears to be quite efficient as we show empirically.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20498,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20498,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Fairness of Causal Algorithmic Recourse,Julius von K\'fcgelgen;Amir-Hossein Karimi;Umang Bhatt;Isabel Valera;Adrian Weller;Bernhard Sch\'f6lkopf,"Algorithmic fairness is typically studied from the perspective of predictions. Instead, here we investigate fairness from the perspective of recourse actions suggested to individuals to remedy an unfavourable classification. We propose two new fair-ness criteria at the group and individual level, which\'97unlike prior work on equalising the average group-wise distance from the decision boundary\'97explicitly account for causal relationships between features, thereby capturing downstream effects of recourse actions performed in the physical world. We explore how our criteria relate to others, such as counterfactual fairness, and show that fairness of recourse is complementary to fairness of prediction. We study theoretically and empirically how to enforce fair causal recourse by altering the classifier and perform a case study on the Adult dataset. Finally, we discuss whether fairness violations in the data generating process revealed by our criteria may be better addressed by societal interventions as opposed to constraints on the classifier.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21192,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21192,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Hardness of Probabilistic Inference Relaxations,Supratik Chakraborty;Kuldeep S. Meel;Moshe Y. Vardi,"A promising approach to probabilistic inference that has attracted recent attention exploits its reduction to a set of model counting queries. Since probabilistic inference and model counting are #P-hard, various relaxations are used in practice, with the hope that these relaxations allow efficient computation while also providing rigorous approximation guarantees. In this paper, we show that contrary to common belief, several relaxations used for model counting and its applications( including probablistic inference) do not really lead to computational efficiency in a complexity theoretic sense. Our arguments proceed by showing the corresponding relaxed notions of counting to be computationally hard. We argue that approximate counting with multiplicative tolerance and probabilistic guarantees of correctness is the only class of relaxations that provably simplifies the problem, given access to an NP-oracle. Finally, we show that for applications that compare probability estimates with a threshold, a new notion of relaxation with gaps between low and high thresholds can be used. This new relaxation allows efficient decision making in practice, given access to an NP-oracle, while also bounding the approximation error. Erratum: This research is supported in part by the National Research Foundation Singapore under its AI Singapore Programme( Award Number: [AISG-RP-2018-005])",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4775,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017785,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Relationship Between State-Dependent Action Costs and Conditional Effects in Planning,Robert Mattm\'fcller;Florian Gei\'dfer;Benedict Wright;Bernhard Nebel,"When planning for tasks that feature both state-dependent action costs and conditional effects using relaxation heuristics, the following problem appears: handling costs and effects separately leads to worse-than-necessary heuristic values, since we may get the more useful effect at the lower cost by choosing different values of a relaxed variable when determining relaxed costs and relaxed active effects. In this paper, we show how this issue can be avoided by representing state-dependent costs and conditional effects uniformly, both as edge-valued multi-valued decision diagrams( EVMDDs) over different sets of edge values, and then working with their product diagram. We develop a theory of EVMDDs that is general enough to encompass state-dependent action costs, conditional effects, and even their combination. We define relaxed effect semantics in the presence of state-dependent action costs and conditional effects, and describe how this semantics can be efficiently computed using product EVMDDs. This will form the foundation for informative relaxation heuristics in the setting with state-dependent costs and conditional effects combined.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12088,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12088,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On the Sample Complexity of Vanilla Model-Based Offline Reinforcement Learning with Dependent Samples,Mustafa O. Karabag;Ufuk Topcu,"Offline reinforcement learning( offline RL) considers problems where learning is performed using only previously collected samples and is helpful for the settings in which collecting new data is costly or risky. In model-based offline RL, the learner performs estimation( or optimization) using a model constructed according to the empirical transition frequencies. We analyze the sample complexity of vanilla model-based offline RL with dependent samples in the infinite-horizon discounted-reward setting. In our setting, the samples obey the dynamics of the Markov decision process and, consequently, may have interdependencies. Under no assumption of independent samples, we provide a high-probability, polynomial sample complexity bound for vanilla model-based off-policy evaluation that requires partial or uniform coverage. We extend this result to the off-policy optimization under uniform coverage. As a comparison to the model-based approach, we analyze the sample complexity of off-policy evaluation with vanilla importance sampling in the infinite-horizon setting. Finally, we provide an estimator that outperforms the sample-mean estimator for almost deterministic dynamics that are prevalent in reinforcement learning.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25989,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.25989,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On Total-Order HTN Plan Verification with Method Preconditions \'96 An Extension of the CYK Parsing Algorithm,Songtuan Lin;Gregor Behnke;Simona Ondr\uc0\u269 kov\'e1;Roman Bart\'e1k;Pascal Bercher,"In this paper, we consider the plan verification problem for totally ordered( TO) HTN planning. The problem is proved to be solvable in polynomial time by recognizing its connection to the membership decision problem for context-free grammars. Currently, most HTN plan verification approaches do not have special treatments for the TO configuration, and the only one features such an optimization still relies on an exhaustive search. Hence, we will develop a new TOHTN plan verification approach in this paper by extending the standard CYK parsing algorithm which acts as the best decision procedure in general.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26420,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26420,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,On Value Function Representation of Long Horizon Problems,Lucas Lehnert;Romain Laroche;Harm van Seijen,"In Reinforcement Learning, an intelligent agent has to make a sequence of decisions to accomplish a goal. If this sequence is long, then the agent has to plan over a long horizon. While learning the optimal policy and its value function is a well studied problem in Reinforcement Learning, this paper focuses on the structure of the optimal value function and how hard it is to represent the optimal value function. We show that the generalized Rademacher complexity of the hypothesis space of all optimal value functions is dependent on the planning horizon and independent of the state and action space size. Further, we present bounds on the action-gaps of action value functions and show that they can collapse if a long planning horizon is used. The theoretical results are verified empirically on randomly generated MDPs and on a grid-world fruit collection task using deep value function approximation. Our theoretical results highlight a connection between value function approximation and the Options framework and suggest that value functions should be decomposed along bottlenecks of the MDPs transition dynamics.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11646,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11646,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,One Step Closer to Unbiased Aleatoric Uncertainty Estimation,Wang Zhang;Ziwen Martin Ma;Subhro Das;Tsui-Wei Lily Weng;Alexandre Megretski;Luca Daniel;Lam M. Nguyen,"Neural networks are powerful tools in various applications, and quantifying their uncertainty is crucial for reliable decision-making. In the deep learning field, the uncertainties are usually categorized into aleatoric( data) and epistemic( model) uncertainty. In this paper, we point out that the existing popular variance attenuation method highly overestimates aleatoric uncertainty. To address this issue, we proposed a new estimation method by actively de-noising the observed data. By conducting a broad range of experiments, we demonstrate that our proposed approach provides a much closer approximation to the actual data uncertainty than the standard method.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29627,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29627,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,One-Network Adversarial Fairness,Tameem Adel;Isabel Valera;Zoubin Ghahramani;Adrian Weller,"There is currently a great expansion of the impact of machine learning algorithms on our lives, prompting the need for objectives other than pure performance, including fairness. Fairness here means that the outcome of an automated decisionmaking system should not discriminate between subgroups characterized by sensitive attributes such as gender or race. Given any existing differentiable classifier, we make only slight adjustments to the architecture including adding a new hidden layer, in order to enable the concurrent adversarial optimization for fairness and accuracy. Our framework provides one way to quantify the tradeoff between fairness and accuracy, while also leading to strong empirical performance.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4085,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012412,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,One-Shot Image Classification by Learning to Restore Prototypes,Wanqi Xue;Wei Wang,"One-shot image classification aims to train image classifiers over the dataset with only one image per category. It is challenging for modern deep neural networks that typically require hundreds or thousands of images per class. In this paper, we adopt metric learning for this problem, which has been applied for fewand many-shot image classification by comparing the distance between the test image and the center of each class in the feature space. However, for one-shot learning, the existing metric learning approaches would suffer poor performance because the single training image may not be representative of the class. For example, if the image is far away from the class center in the feature space, the metric-learning based algorithms are unlikely to make correct predictions for the test images because the decision boundary is shifted by this noisy image. To address this issue, we propose a simple yet effective regression model, denoted by RestoreNet, which learns a class agnostic transformation on the image feature to move the image closer to the class center in the feature space. Experiments demonstrate that RestoreNet obtains superior performance over the state-of-the-art methods on a broad range of datasets. Moreover, RestoreNet can be easily combined with other methods to achieve further improvement.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6130,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6130,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online 3D Bin Packing with Constrained Deep Reinforcement Learning,Hang Zhao;Qijin She;Chenyang Zhu;Yin Yang;Kai Xu,"We solve a challenging yet practically useful variant of 3D Bin Packing Problem( 3D-BPP). In our problem, the agent has limited information about the items to be packed into a single bin, and an item must be packed immediately after its arrival without buffering or readjusting. The items placement also subjects to the constraints of order dependence and physical stability. We formulate this online 3D-BPP as a constrained Markov decision process( CMDP). To solve the problem, we propose an effective and easy-to-implement constrained deep reinforcement learning( DRL) method under the actor-critic framework. In particular, we introduce a prediction-and-projection scheme: The agent first predicts a feasibility mask for the placement actions as an auxiliary task and then uses the mask to modulate the action probabilities output by the actor during training. Such supervision and projection facilitate the agent to learn feasible policies very efficiently. Our method can be easily extended to handle lookahead items, multi-bin packing, and item re-orienting. We have conducted extensive evaluation showing that the learned policy significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art methods. A preliminary user study even suggests that our method might attain a human-level performance.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16155,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16155,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Active Linear Regression via Thresholding,Carlos Riquelme;Ramesh Johari;Baosen Zhang,"We consider the problem of online active learning to collect data for regression modeling. Specifically, we consider a decision maker with a limited experimentation budget who must efficiently learn an underlying linear population model. Our main contribution is a novel threshold-based algorithm for selection of most informative observations; we characterize its performance and fundamental lower bounds. We extend the algorithm and its guarantees to sparse linear regression in high-dimensional settings. Simulations suggest the algorithm is remarkably robust: it provides significant benefits over passive random sampling in real-world datasets that exhibit high nonlinearity and high dimensionality \'97 significantly reducing both the mean and variance of the squared error.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10859,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10859,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Apprenticeship Learning,Lior Shani;Tom Zahavy;Shie Mannor,"In Apprenticeship Learning( AL) , we are given a Markov Decision Process( MDP) without access to the cost function. Instead, we observe trajectories sampled by an expert that acts according to some policy. The goal is to find a policy that matches the experts performance on some predefined set of cost functions. We introduce an online variant of AL( Online Apprenticeship Learning; OAL) , where the agent is expected to perform comparably to the expert while interacting with the environment. We show that the OAL problem can be effectively solved by combining two mirror descent based no-regret algorithms: one for policy optimization and another for learning the worst case cost. By employing optimistic exploration, we derive a convergent algorithm with O( sqrt( K) ) regret, where K is the number of interactions with the MDP, and an additional linear error term that depends on the amount of expert trajectories available. Importantly, our algorithm avoids the need to solve an MDP at each iteration, making it more practical compared to prior AL methods. Finally, we implement a deep variant of our algorithm which shares some similarities to GAIL, but where the discriminator is replaced with the costs learned by OAL. Our simulations suggest that OAL performs well in high dimensional control problems.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20798,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20798,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Class-Incremental Continual Learning with Adversarial Shapley Value,Dongsub Shim;Zheda Mai;Jihwan Jeong;Scott Sanner;Hyunwoo Kim;Jongseong Jang,"As image-based deep learning becomes pervasive on every device, from cell phones to smart watches, there is a growing need to develop methods that continually learn from data while minimizing memory footprint and power consumption. While memory replay techniques have shown exceptional promise for this task of continual learning, the best method for selecting which buffered images to replay is still an open question. In this paper, we specifically focus on the online class-incremental setting where a model needs to learn new classes continually from an online data stream. To this end, we contribute a novel Adversarial Shapley value scoring method that scores memory data samples according to their ability to preserve latent decision boundaries for previously observed classes( to maintain learning stability and avoid forgetting) while interfering with latent decision boundaries of current classes being learned( to encourage plasticity and optimal learning of new class boundaries). Overall, we observe that our proposed ASER method provides competitive or improved performance compared to state-of-the-art replay-based continual learning methods on a variety of datasets.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17159,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17159,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Convex Optimization for Sequential Decision Processes and Extensive-Form Games,Gabriele Farina;Christian Kroer;Tuomas Sandholm,"Regret minimization is a powerful tool for solving large-scale extensive-form games. State-of-the-art methods rely on minimizing regret locally at each decision point. In this work we derive a new framework for regret minimization on sequential decision problems and extensive-form games with general compact convex sets at each decision point and general convex losses, as opposed to prior work which has been for simplex decision points and linear losses. We call our framework laminar regret decomposition. It generalizes the CFR algorithm to this more general setting. Furthermore, our framework enables a new proof of CFR even in the known setting, which is derived from a perspective of decomposing polytope regret, thereby leading to an arguably simpler interpretation of the algorithm. Our generalization to convex compact sets and convex losses allows us to develop new algorithms for several problems: regularized sequential decision making, regularized Nash equilibria in zero-sum extensive-form games, and computing approximate extensive-form perfect equilibria. Our generalization also leads to the first regret-minimization algorithm for computing reduced-normal-form quantal response equilibria based on minimizing local regrets. Experiments show that our framework leads to algorithms that scale at a rate comparable to the fastest variants of counterfactual regret minimization for computing Nash equilibrium, and therefore our approach leads to the first algorithm for computing quantal response equilibria in extremely large games. Our algorithms for( quadratically) regularized equilibrium finding are orders of magnitude faster than the fastest algorithms for Nash equilibrium finding; this suggests regret-minimization algorithms based on decreasing regularization for Nash equilibrium finding as future work. Finally we show that our framework enables a new kind of scalable opponent exploitation approach.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4019,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011917,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Hyperparameter Optimization for Class-Incremental Learning,Yaoyao Liu;Yingying Li;Bernt Schiele;Qianru Sun,"Class-incremental learning( CIL) aims to train a classification model while the number of classes increases phase-by-phase. An inherent challenge of CIL is the stability-plasticity tradeoff, i. e. , CIL models should keep stable to retain old knowledge and keep plastic to absorb new knowledge. However, none of the existing CIL models can achieve the optimal tradeoff in different data-receiving settings\'97where typically the training-from-half( TFH) setting needs more stability, but the training-from-scratch( TFS) needs more plasticity. To this end, we design an online learning method that can adaptively optimize the tradeoff without knowing the setting as a priori. Specifically, we first introduce the key hyperparameters that influence the tradeoff, e. g. , knowledge distillation( KD) loss weights, learning rates, and classifier types. Then, we formulate the hyperparameter optimization process as an online Markov Decision Process( MDP) problem and propose a specific algorithm to solve it. We apply local estimated rewards and a classic bandit algorithm Exp3 to address the issues when applying online MDP methods to the CIL protocol. Our method consistently improves top-performing CIL methods in both TFH and TFS settings, e. g. , boosting the average accuracy of TFH and TFS by 2. 2 percentage points on ImageNet-Full, compared to the state-of-the-art. Code is provided at https://class-il. mpi-inf. mpg. de/online/",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26070,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.26070,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Markov Decision Processes Configuration with Continuous Decision Space,Davide Maran;Pierriccardo Olivieri;Francesco Emanuele Stradi;Giuseppe Urso;Nicola Gatti;Marcello Restelli,"In this paper, we investigate the optimal online configuration of episodic Markov decision processes when the space of the possible configurations is continuous. Specifically, we study the interaction between a learner( referred to as the configurator) and an agent with a fixed, unknown policy, when the learner aims to minimize her losses by choosing transition functions in online fashion. The losses may be unrelated to the agents rewards. This problem applies to many real-world scenarios where the learner seeks to manipulate the Markov decision process to her advantage. We study both deterministic and stochastic settings, where the losses are either fixed or sampled from an unknown probability distribution. We design two algorithms whose peculiarity is to rely on occupancy measures to explore with optimism the continuous space of transition functions, achieving constant regret in deterministic settings and sublinear regret in stochastic settings, respectively. Moreover, we prove that the regret bound is tight with respect to any constant factor in deterministic settings. Finally, we compare the empiric performance of our algorithms with a baseline in synthetic experiments.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29344,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29344,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Pandora\'92s Boxes and Bandits,Hossein Esfandiari;MohammadTaghi HajiAghayi;Brendan Lucier;Michael Mitzenmacher,"We consider online variations of the Pandora\'92s box problem( Weitzman 1979) , a standard model for understanding issues related to the cost of acquiring information for decision-making. Our problem generalizes both the classic Pandora\'92s box problem and the prophet inequality framework. Boxes are presented online, each with a random value and cost drawn jointly from some known distribution. Pandora chooses online whether to open each box given its cost, and then chooses irrevocably whether to keep the revealed prize or pass on it. We aim for approximation algorithms against adversaries that can choose the largest prize over any opened box, and use optimal offline policies to decide which boxes to open( without knowledge of the value inside) 1. We consider variations where Pandora can collect multiple prizes subject to feasibility constraints, such as cardinality, matroid, or knapsack constraints. We also consider variations related to classic multi-armed bandit problems from reinforcement learning. Our results use a reduction-based framework where we separate the issues of the cost of acquiring information from the online decision process of which prizes to keep. Our work shows that in many scenarios, Pandora can achieve a good approximation to the best possible performance.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4014,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011885,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Platforms and the Fair Exposure Problem under Homophily,Jakob Schoeffer;Alexander Ritchie;Keziah Naggita;Faidra Monachou;Jessica Finocchiaro;Marc Juarez,"In the wake of increasing political extremism, online platforms have been criticized for contributing to polarization. One line of criticism has focused on echo chambers and the recommended content served to users by these platforms. In this work, we introduce the fair exposure problem: given limited intervention power of the platform, the goal is to enforce balance in the spread of content( e. g. , news articles) among two groups of users through constraints similar to those imposed by the Fairness Doctrine in the United States in the past. Groups are characterized by different affiliations( e. g. , political views) and have different preferences for content. We develop a stylized framework that models intraand inter-group content propagation under homophily, and we formulate the platforms decision as an optimization problem that aims at maximizing user engagement, potentially under fairness constraints. Our main notion of fairness requires that each group see a mixture of their preferred and non-preferred content, encouraging information diversity. Promoting such information diversity is often viewed as desirable and a potential means for breaking out of harmful echo chambers. We study the solutions to both the fairness-agnostic and fairness-aware problems. We prove that a fairness-agnostic approach inevitably leads to group-homogeneous targeting by the platform. This is only partially mitigated by imposing fairness constraints: we show that there exist optimal fairness-aware solutions which target one group with different types of content and the other group with only one type that is not necessarily the groups most preferred. Finally, using simulations with real-world data, we study the system dynamics and quantify the price of fairness.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26404,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26404,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Restless Multi-Armed Bandits with Long-Term Fairness Constraints,Shufan  Wang;Guojun Xiong;Jian Li,"Restless multi-armed bandits( RMAB) have been widely used to model sequential decision making problems with constraints. The decision maker( DM) aims to maximize the expected total reward over an infinite horizon under an \'93instantaneous activation constraint\'94 that at most B arms can be activated at any decision epoch, where the state of each arm evolves stochastically according to a Markov decision process( MDP). However, this basic model fails to provide any fairness guarantee among arms. In this paper, we introduce RMAB-F, a new RMAB model with \'93long-term fairness constraints\'94, where the objective now is to maximize the longterm reward while a minimum long-term activation fraction for each arm must be satisfied. For the online RMAB-F setting( i. e. , the underlying MDPs associated with each arm are unknown to the DM) , we develop a novel reinforcement learning( RL) algorithm named Fair-UCRL. We prove that Fair-UCRL ensures probabilistic sublinear bounds on both the reward regret and the fairness violation regret. Compared with off-the-shelf RL methods, our Fair-UCRL is much more computationally efficient since it contains a novel exploitation that leverages a low-complexity index policy for making decisions. Experimental results further demonstrate the effectiveness of our Fair-UCRL.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29489,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29489,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Online Search with Best-Price and Query-Based Predictions,Spyros Angelopoulos;Shahin Kamali;Dehou Zhang,"In the online( time-series) search problem, a player is presented with a sequence of prices which are revealed in an online manner. In the standard definition of the problem, for each revealed price, the player must decide irrevocably whether to accept or reject it, without knowledge of future prices( other than an upper and a lower bound on their extreme values) , and the objective is to minimize the competitive ratio, namely the worst case ratio between the maximum price in the sequence and the one selected by the player. The problem formulates several applications of decision-making in the face of uncertainty on the revealed samples. Previous work on this problem has largely assumed extreme scenarios in which either the player has almost no information about the input, or the player is provided with some powerful, and error-free advice. In this work, we study learning-augmented algorithms, in which there is a potentially erroneous prediction concerning the input. Specifically, we consider two different settings: the setting in which the prediction is related to the maximum price in the sequence, as well as well as the setting in which the prediction is obtained as a response to a number of binary queries. For both settings, we provide tight, or near-tight upper and lower bounds on the worst-case performance of search algorithms as a function of the prediction error. We also provide experimental results on data obtained from stock exchange markets that confirm the theoretical analysis, and explain how our techniques can be applicable to other learning-augmented applications.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21199,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21199,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Operator-Potential Heuristics for Symbolic Search,Daniel Fi\'9aer;\'c1lvaro Torralba;J\'f6rg Hoffmann,"Symbolic search, using Binary Decision Diagrams( BDDs) to represent sets of states, is a competitive approach to optimal planning. Yet heuristic search in this context remains challenging. The many advances on admissible planning heuristics are not directly applicable, as they evaluate one state at a time. Indeed, progress using heuristic functions in symbolic search has been limited and even very informed heuristics have been shown to be detrimental. Here we show how this connection can be made stronger for LP-based potential heuristics. Our key observation is that, for this family of heuristic functions, the change of heuristic value induced by each operator can be precomputed. This facilitates their smooth integration into symbolic search. Our experiments show that this can pay off significantly: we establish a new state of the art in optimal symbolic planning.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21210,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21210,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Opponent-Model Search in Games with Incomplete Information,Junkang Li;Bruno Zanuttini;V\'e9ronique Ventos,"Games with incomplete information are games that model situations where players do not have common knowledge about the game they play, e. g. card games such as poker or bridge. Opponent models can be of crucial importance for decision-making in such games. We propose algorithms for computing optimal and/or robust strategies in games with incomplete information, given various types of knowledge about opponent models. As an application, we describe a framework for reasoning about an opponents reasoning in such games, where opponent models arise naturally.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28844,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28844,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Admission Control for Multiclass Queues with Time-Varying Arrival Rates via State Abstraction,Marc Rigter;Danial Dervovic;Parisa Hassanzadeh;Jason Long;Parisa Zehtabi;Daniele Magazzeni,"We consider a novel queuing problem where the decision-maker must choose to accept or reject randomly arriving tasks into a no buffer queue which are processed by N identical servers. Each task has a price, which is a positive real number, and a class. Each class of task has a different price distribution, service rate, and arrives according to an inhomogenous Poisson process. The objective is to decide which tasks to accept so that the total price of tasks processed is maximised over a finite horizon. We formulate the problem using a discrete time Markov Decision Process( MDP) with a hybrid state space. We show that the optimal value function has a specific structure, which enables us to solve the hybrid MDP exactly. Moreover, we rigorously prove that as the gap between successive decision epochs grows smaller, the discrete time solution approaches the optimal solution to the original continuous time problem. To improve the scalability of our approach to a greater number of servers and task classes, we present an approximation based on state abstraction. We validate our approach on synthetic data, as well as a real financial fraud data set, which is the motivating application for this work.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21229,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21229,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Attack and Defense for Reinforcement Learning,Jeremy McMahan;Young Wu;Xiaojin Zhu;Qiaomin Xie,"To ensure the usefulness of Reinforcement Learning( RL) in real systems, it is crucial to ensure they are robust to noise and adversarial attacks. In adversarial RL, an external attacker has the power to manipulate the victim agents interaction with the environment. We study the full class of online manipulation attacks, which include( i) state attacks, ( ii) observation attacks( which are a generalization of perceived-state attacks) , ( iii) action attacks, and( iv) reward attacks. We show the attackers problem of designing a stealthy attack that maximizes its own expected reward, which often corresponds to minimizing the victims value, is captured by a Markov Decision Process( MDP) that we call a meta-MDP since it is not the true environment but a higher level environment induced by the attacked interaction. We show that the attacker can derive optimal attacks by planning in polynomial time or learning with polynomial sample complexity using standard RL techniques. We argue that the optimal defense policy for the victim can be computed as the solution to a stochastic Stackelberg game, which can be further simplified into a partially-observable turn-based stochastic game( POTBSG). Neither the attacker nor the victim would benefit from deviating from their respective optimal policies, thus such solutions are truly robust. Although the defense problem is NP-hard, we show that optimal Markovian defenses can be computed( learned) in polynomial time( sample complexity) in many scenarios.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29346,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29346,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Decision Diagrams for Classification,Alexandre M. Florio;Pedro Martins;Maximilian Schiffer;Thiago Serra;Thibaut Vidal,"Decision diagrams for classification have some notable advantages over decision trees, as their internal connections can be determined at training time and their width is not bound to grow exponentially with their depth. Accordingly, decision diagrams are usually less prone to data fragmentation in internal nodes. However, the inherent complexity of training these classifiers acted as a long-standing barrier to their widespread adoption. In this context, we study the training of optimal decision diagrams( ODDs) from a mathematical programming perspective. We introduce a novel mixed-integer linear programming model for training and demonstrate its applicability for many datasets of practical importance. Further, we show how this model can be easily extended for fairness, parsimony, and stability notions. We present numerical analyses showing that our model allows training ODDs in short computational times, and that ODDs achieve better accuracy than optimal decision trees, while allowing for improved stability without significant accuracy losses.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25920,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25920,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Decision Trees for Nonlinear Metrics,Emir Demirovi\uc0\u263 ;Peter J. Stuckey,"Nonlinear metrics, such as the F1-score, Matthews correlation coefficient, and Fowlkes\'96Mallows index, are often used to evaluate the performance of machine learning models, in particular, when facing imbalanced datasets that contain more samples of one class than the other. Recent optimal decision tree algorithms have shown remarkable progress in producing trees that are optimal with respect to linear criteria, such as accuracy, but unfortunately nonlinear metrics remain a challenge. To address this gap, we propose a novel algorithm based on bi-objective optimisation, which treats misclassifications of each binary class as a separate objective. We show that, for a large class of metrics, the optimal tree lies on the Pareto frontier. Consequently, we obtain the optimal tree by using our method to generate the set of all nondominated trees. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first method to compute provably optimal decision trees for nonlinear metrics. Our approach leads to a trade-off when compared to optimising linear metrics: the resulting trees may be more desirable according to the given nonlinear metric at the expense of higher runtimes. Nevertheless, the experiments illustrate that runtimes are reasonable for majority of the tested datasets.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16490,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16490,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Kidney Exchange with Immunosuppressants,Haris Aziz;\'c1gnes Cseh;John P. Dickerson;Duncan C. McElfresh,"Algorithms for exchange of kidneys is one of the key successful applications in market design, artificial intelligence, and operations research. Potent immunosuppressant drugs suppress the bodys ability to reject a transplanted organ up to the point that a transplant across bloodor tissue-type incompatibility becomes possible. In contrast to the standard kidney exchange problem, we consider a setting that also involves the decision about which recipients receive from the limited supply of immunosuppressants that make them compatible with originally incompatible kidneys. We firstly present a general computational framework to model this problem. Our main contribution is a range of efficient algorithms that provide flexibility in terms of meeting meaningful objectives. Motivated by the current reality of kidney exchanges using sophisticated mathematical-programming-based clearing algorithms, we then present a general but scalable approach to optimal clearing with immunosuppression; we validate our approach on realistic data from a large fielded exchange.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16073,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16073,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Local Explainer Aggregation for Interpretable Prediction,Qiaomei Li;Rachel Cummings;Yonatan Mintz,"A key challenge for decision makers when incorporating black box machine learned models into practice is being able to understand the predictions provided by these models. One set of methods proposed to address this challenge is that of training surrogate explainer models which approximate how the more complex model is computing its predictions. Explainer methods are generally classified as either local or global explainers depending on what portion of the data space they are purported to explain. The improved coverage of global explainers usually comes at the expense of explainer fidelity( i. e. , how well the explainers predictions match that of the black box model). One way of trading off the advantages of both approaches is to aggregate several local explainers into a single explainer model with improved coverage. However, the problem of aggregating these local explainers is computationally challenging, and existing methods only use heuristics to form these aggregations. In this paper, we propose a local explainer aggregation method which selects local explainers using non-convex optimization. In contrast to other heuristic methods, we use an integer optimization framework to combine local explainers into a near-global aggregate explainer. Our framework allows a decision-maker to directly tradeoff coverage and fidelity of the resulting aggregation through the parameters of the optimization problem. We also propose a novel local explainer algorithm based on information filtering. We evaluate our algorithmic framework on two healthcare datasets: the Parkinsons Progression Marker Initiative( PPMI) data set and a geriatric mobility dataset from the UCI machine learning repository. Our choice of these healthcare-related datasets is motivated by the anticipated need for explainable precision medicine. We find that our method outperforms existing local explainer aggregation methods in terms of both fidelity and coverage of classification. It also improves on fidelity over existing global explainer methods, particularly in multi-class settings, where state-of-the-art methods achieve 70% and ours achieves 90%.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21458,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21458,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Margin Distribution Learning in Dynamic Environments,Teng Zhang;Peng Zhao;Hai Jin,"Recently a promising research direction of statistical learning has been advocated, i. e. , the optimal margin distribution learning with the central idea that instead of the minimal margin, the margin distribution is more crucial to the generalization performance. Although the superiority of this new learning paradigm has been verified under batch learning settings, it remains open for online learning settings, in particular, the dynamic environments in which the underlying decision function varies over time. In this paper, we propose the dynamic optimal margin distribution machine and theoretically analyze its regret. Although the obtained bound has the same order with the best known one, our method can significantly relax the restrictive assumption that the function variation should be given ahead of time, resulting in better applicability in practical scenarios. We also derive an excess risk bound for the special case when the underlying decision function only evolves several discrete changes rather than varying continuously. Extensive experiments on both synthetic and real data sets demonstrate the superiority of our method.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6162,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6162,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Sequential Drilling for Hydrocarbon Field Development Planning,Ruben Rodriguez Torrado;Jesus Rios;Gerald Tesauro,"We present a novel approach for planning the development of hydrocarbon fields, taking into account the sequential nature of well drilling decisions and the possibility to react to future information. In a dynamic fashion, we want to optimally decide where to drill each well conditional on every possible piece of information that could be obtained from previous wells. We formulate this sequential drilling optimization problem as a POMDP, and propose an algorithm to search for an optimal drilling policy. We show that our new approach leads to better results compared to the current standard in the oil and gas( O&G) industry.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19103,10.1609/aaai.v31i2.19103,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Emerging Application Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimal Sparse Recovery with Decision Stumps,Kiarash Banihashem;Mohammad Hajiaghayi;Max Springer,"Decision trees are widely used for their low computational cost, good predictive performance, and ability to assess the importance of features. Though often used in practice for feature selection, the theoretical guarantees of these methods are not well understood. We here obtain a tight finite sample bound for the feature selection problem in linear regression using single-depth decision trees. We examine the statistical properties of these decision stumps for the recovery of the s active features from p total features, where s << p. Our analysis provides tight sample performance guarantees on high-dimensional sparse systems which align with the finite sample bound of O( s log p) as obtained by Lasso, improving upon previous bounds for both the median and optimal splitting criteria. Our results extend to the non-linear regime as well as arbitrary sub-Gaussian distributions, demonstrating that tree based methods attain strong feature selection properties under a wide variety of settings and further shedding light on the success of these methods in practice. As a byproduct of our analysis, we show that we can provably guarantee recovery even when the number of active features s is unknown. We further validate our theoretical results and proof methodology using computational experiments.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25827,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25827,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimistic Model Rollouts for Pessimistic Offline Policy Optimization,Yuanzhao Zhai;Yiying Li;Zijian Gao;Xudong Gong;Kele Xu;Dawei Feng;Ding Bo;Huaimin Wang,"Model-based offline reinforcement learning( RL) has made remarkable progress, offering a promising avenue for improving generalization with synthetic model rollouts. Existing works primarily focus on incorporating pessimism for policy optimization, usually via constructing a Pessimistic Markov Decision Process( P-MDP). However, the P-MDP discourages the policies from learning in out-of-distribution( OOD) regions beyond the support of offline datasets, which can under-utilize the generalization ability of dynamics models. In contrast, we propose constructing an Optimistic MDP( O-MDP). We initially observed the potential benefits of optimism brought by encouraging more OOD rollouts. Motivated by this observation, we present ORPO, a simple yet effective model-based offline RL framework. ORPO generates Optimistic model Rollouts for Pessimistic offline policy Optimization. Specifically, we train an optimistic rollout policy in the O-MDP to sample more OOD model rollouts. Then we relabel the sampled state-action pairs with penalized rewards, and optimize the output policy in the P-MDP. Theoretically, we demonstrate that the performance of policies trained with ORPO can be lower-bounded in linear MDPs. Experimental results show that our framework significantly outperforms P-MDP baselines by a margin of 30%, achieving state-of-the-art performance on the widely-used benchmark. Moreover, ORPO exhibits notable advantages in problems that require generalization.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29607,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29607,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimization of Hierarchical Regression Model with Application to Optimizing Multi-Response Regression K-ary Trees,Pooya Tavallali;Peyman Tavallali;Mukesh Singhal,"THIS PAPER HAS BEEN RETRACTED The University of California, Merced campus, recently completed a formal investigation into allegations that content in this paper( Optimization of Hierarchical Regression Model with Application to Optimizing Multi-Response Regression K-ary Trees, in Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence, 2019, vol. 33, pp. 5133\'96 5142) was not properly attributed to the novel work of Professor Carreira\'97Perpi\'f1\'e1n, reflected in a previously published paper, Alternating Optimization of Decision Trees, with Application to Learning Sparse Oblique Trees, \'94 published in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2018, ( vol. 31, pp. 1211\'961221). The UC Merced investigation was conducted in consultation with NSF, which funded the research reflected in the original Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems paper, and in accordance with UC Merced policies and procedures on research misconduct. The allegations were substantiated by a preponderance of the evidence. The investigation committee found, in pertinent part, that \'93key novel ideas in the AAAI paper were taken from the NeurIPS paper without appropriate credit. The initial submission of the AAAI paper, upon which the acceptance decision was made, did not include a reference to the NeurIPS paper, and thus represented a clear case of plagiarism. A citation to the NeurIPS paper was added in the final revision, after the reviewers had already decided to accept it, making it impossible for the AAAI peer-review process to consider the contributions of the AAAI article in light of the earlier work reported in the NeurIPS paper. Furthermore, the citation to the NeurIPS paper in this manuscript does not properly credit the original contributions of the NeurIPS paper and how those ideas were reflected in the work reported in this paper. In response to a formal request made by the University of Californias Chancellors office, and after careful review by the AAAI Publications Committee, AAAI has decided to retract this paper. One of the conditions of submission of a paper for publication in AAAI conference proceedings is that authors declare explicitly that their work is original and has not appeared in a publication elsewhere. Reuse of any data should be appropriately cited. As such this paper represents a severe abuse of the scientific publishing system. The scientific community takes a very strong view on this matter and apologies are offered to readers of this proceedings that this was not detected during the submission process.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4447,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015133,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Binary Decision Diagrams with MaxSAT for Classification,Hao Hu;Marie-Jos\'e9 Huguet;Mohamed Siala,"The growing interest in explainable artificial intelligence( XAI) for critical decision making motivates the need for interpretable machine learning( ML) models. In fact, due to their structure( especially with small sizes) , these models are inherently understandable by humans. Recently, several exact methods for computing such models are proposed to overcome weaknesses of traditional heuristic methods by providing more compact models or better prediction quality. Despite their compressed representation of Boolean functions, Binary decision diagrams( BDDs) did not gain enough interest as other interpretable ML models. In this paper, we first propose SAT-based models for learning optimal BDDs( in terms of the number of features) that classify all input examples. Then, we lift the encoding to a MaxSAT model to learn optimal BDDs in limited depths, that maximize the number of examples correctly classified. Finally, we tackle the fragmentation problem by introducing a method to merge compatible subtrees for the BDDs found via the MaxSAT model. Our empirical study shows clear benefits of the proposed approach in terms of prediction quality and interpretability( i. e. , lighter size) compared to the state-of-the-art approaches.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20291,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20291,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Discount and Reputation Trade-Offs in E-Commerce Systems: Characterization and Online Learning,Hong Xie;Yongkun Li;John C. S. Lui,"Feedback-based reputation systems are widely deployed in E-commerce systems. Evidences showed that earning a reputable label( for sellers of such systems) may take a substantial amount of time and this implies a reduction of profit. We propose to enhance sellers\'92 reputation via price discounts. However, the challenges are:( 1) The demands from buyers depend on both the discount and reputation;( 2) The demands are unknown to the seller. To address these challenges, we first formulate a profit maximization problem via a semiMarkov decision process( SMDP) to explore the optimal trade-offs in selecting price discounts. We prove the monotonicity of the optimal profit and optimal discount. Based on the monotonicity, we design a QLFP( Q-learning with forward projection) algorithm, which infers the optimal discount from historical transaction data. We conduct experiments on a dataset from to show that our QLFP algorithm improves the profit by as high as 50% over both the classical Q-learning and speedy Q-learning algorithm. Our QLFP algorithm also improves the profit by as high as four times over the case of not providing any price discount.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4800,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017992,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Energy Costs in a Zinc and Lead Mine,Alan Kinsella;Alan F. Smeaton;Barry Hurley;Barry O\'92Sullivan;Helmut Simonis,"Boliden Tara Mines Ltd. consumed 184. 7 GWh of electricity in 2014, equating to over 1% of the national demand of Ireland or approximately 35, 000 homes. Ireland\'92s industrial electricity prices, at an average of 13 c/KWh in 2014, are amongst the most expensive in Europe. Cost effective electricity procurement is ever more pressing for businesses to remain competitive. In parallel, the proliferation of intelligent devices has led to the industrial Internet of Things paradigm becoming mainstream. As more and more devices become equipped with network connectivity, smart metering is fast becoming a means of giving energy users access to a rich array of consumption data. These modern sensor networks have facilitated the development of applications to process, analyse, and react to continuous data streams in real-time. Subsequently, future procurement and consumption decisions can be informed by a highly detailed evaluation of energy usage. With these considerations in mind, this paper uses variable energy prices from Ireland\'92s Single Electricity Market, along with smart meter sensor data, to simulate the scheduling of an industrial-sized underground pump station in Tara Mines. The objective is to reduce the overall energy costs whilst still functioning within the system\'92s operational constraints. An evaluation using real-world electricity prices and detailed sensor data for 2014 demonstrates significant savings of up to 10. 72% over the year compared to the existing control systems.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19079,10.1609/aaai.v30i2.19079,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Emerging Application Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Expectation with Guarantees in POMDPs,Krishnendu Chatterjee;Petr Novotn\'fd;Guillermo P\'e9rez;Jean-Fran\'e7ois Raskin;\uc0\u272 or\u273 e \'8eikeli\u263 ,"A standard objective in partially-observable Markov decision processes( POMDPs) is to find a policy that maximizes the expected discounted-sum payoff. However, such policies may still permit unlikely but highly undesirable outcomes, which is problematic especially in safety-critical applications. Recently, there has been a surge of interest in POMDPs where the goal is to maximize the probability to ensure that the payoff is at least a given threshold, but these approaches do not consider any optimization beyond satisfying this threshold constraint. In this work we go beyond both the \'93expectation\'94 and \'93threshold\'94 approaches and consider a \'93guaranteed payoff optimization( GPO) \'94 problem for POMDPs, where we are given a threshold t and the objective is to find a policy \u963  such that a) each possible outcome of \u963  yields a discounted-sum payoff of at least t, and b) the expected discounted-sum payoff of \u963  is optimal( or near-optimal) among all policies satisfying a). We present a practical approach to tackle the GPO problem and evaluate it on standard POMDP benchmarks.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11046,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11046,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Local Satisfaction of Long-Run Average Objectives in Markov Decision Processes,David Kla\'9aka;Anton\'edn Ku\uc0\u269 era;Vojt\u283 ch K\u367 r;V\'edt Musil;Vojt\u283 ch \u344 eh\'e1k,"Long-run average optimization problems for Markov decision processes( MDPs) require constructing policies with optimal steady-state behavior, i. e. , optimal limit frequency of visits to the states. However, such policies may suffer from local instability in the sense that the frequency of states visited in a bounded time horizon along a run differs significantly from the limit frequency. In this work, we propose an efficient algorithmic solution to this problem.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29993,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.29993,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Quantiles in Preference-Based Markov Decision Processes,Hugo Gilbert;Paul Weng;Yan Xu,"In the Markov decision process model, policies are usually evaluated by expected cumulative rewards. As this decision criterion is not always suitable, we propose in this paper an algorithm for computing a policy optimal for the quantile criterion. Both finite and infinite horizons are considered. Finally we experimentally evaluate our approach on random MDPs and on a data center control problem.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11026,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11026,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Optimizing Resilience in Large Scale Networks,Xiaojian Wu;Daniel Sheldon;Shlomo Zilberstein,"We propose a decision making framework to optimize the resilience of road networks to natural disasters such as floods. Our model generalizes an existing one for this problem by allowing roads with a broad class of stochastic delay models. We then present a fast algorithm based on the sample average approximation( SAA) method and network design techniques to solve this problem approximately. On a small existing benchmark, our algorithm produces near-optimal solutions and the SAA method converges quickly with a small number of samples. We then apply our algorithm to a large real-world problem to optimize the resilience of a road network to failures of stream crossing structures to minimize travel times of emergency medical service vehicles. On medium-sized networks, our algorithm obtains solutions of comparable quality to a greedy baseline method but is 30\'9660 times faster. Our algorithm is the only existing algorithm that can scale to the full network, which has many thousands of edges.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9911,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9911,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track: Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Order Regularization on Ordinal Loss for Head Pose, Age and Gaze Estimation",Tianchu Guo;Hui Zhang;ByungIn Yoo;Yongchao Liu;Youngjun Kwak;Jae-Joon Han,"Ordinal loss is widely used in solving regression problems with deep learning technologies. Its basic idea is to convert regression to classification while preserving the natural order. However, the order constraint is enforced only by ordinal label implicitly, leading to the real output values not strictly in order. It causes the network to learn separable feature rather than discriminative feature, and possibly overfit on training set. In this paper, we propose order regularization on ordinal loss, which makes the outputs in order by explicitly constraining the ordinal classifiers in order. The proposed method contains two parts, i. e. similar-weights constraint, which reduces the ineffective space between classifiers, and differential-bias constraint, which enforces the decision planes in order and enhances the discrimination power of the classifiers. Experimental results show that our proposed method boosts the performance of original ordinal loss on various regression problems such as head pose, age, and gaze estimation, with significant error reduction of around 5%. Furthermore, our method outperforms the state of the art on all these tasks, with the performance gain of 14. 4%, 2. 2% and 6. 5% on head pose, age and gaze estimation respectively.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16240,10.1609/aaai.v35i2.16240,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Ordered Counterfactual Explanation by Mixed-Integer Linear Optimization,Kentaro Kanamori;Takuya Takagi;Ken Kobayashi;Yuichi Ike;Kento Uemura;Hiroki Arimura,"Post-hoc explanation methods for machine learning models have been widely used to support decision-making. One of the popular methods is Counterfactual Explanation( CE) , also known as Actionable Recourse, which provides a user with a perturbation vector of features that alters the prediction result. Given a perturbation vector, a user can interpret it as an action for obtaining ones desired decision result. In practice, however, showing only a perturbation vector is often insufficient for users to execute the action. The reason is that if there is an asymmetric interaction among features, such as causality, the total cost of the action is expected to depend on the order of changing features. Therefore, practical CE methods are required to provide an appropriate order of changing features in addition to a perturbation vector. For this purpose, we propose a new framework called Ordered Counterfactual Explanation( OrdCE). We introduce a new objective function that evaluates a pair of an action and an order based on feature interaction. To extract an optimal pair, we propose a mixed-integer linear optimization approach with our objective function. Numerical experiments on real datasets demonstrated the effectiveness of our OrdCE in comparison with unordered CE methods.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17376,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17376,11,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Philosophy and Ethics of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Overcoming Blind Spots in the Real World: Leveraging Complementary Abilities for Joint Execution,Ramya Ramakrishnan;Ece Kamar;Besmira Nushi;Debadeepta Dey;Julie Shah;Eric Horvitz,"Simulators are being increasingly used to train agents before deploying them in real-world environments. While training in simulation provides a cost-effective way to learn, poorly modeled aspects of the simulator can lead to costly mistakes, or blind spots. While humans can help guide an agent towards identifying these error regions, humans themselves have blind spots and noise in execution. We study how learning about blind spots of both can be used to manage hand-off decisions when humans and agents jointly act in the real-world in which neither of them are trained or evaluated fully. The formulation assumes that agent blind spots result from representational limitations in the simulation world, which leads the agent to ignore important features that are relevant for acting in the open world. Our approach for blind spot discovery combines experiences collected in simulation with limited human demonstrations. The first step applies imitation learning to demonstration data to identify important features that the human is using but that the agent is missing. The second step uses noisy labels extracted from action mismatches between the agent and the human across simulation and demonstration data to train blind spot models. We show through experiments on two domains that our approach is able to learn a succinct representation that accurately captures blind spot regions and avoids dangerous errors in the real world through transfer of control between the agent and the human.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4571,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016137,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Overlap-Robust Decision Boundary Learning for Within-Network Classification,Sharad Nandanwar;M. N. Murty,"We study the problem of within network classification, where given a partially labeled network, we infer the labels of the remaining nodes based on the link structure. Conventional loss functions penalize a node based on a function of its predicted label and target label. Such loss functions under-perform while learning on a network having overlapping classes. In relational setting, even though the ground truth is not known for the unlabeled nodes, some evidence is present in the form of labeling acquired by the nodes in their neighborhood. We propose a structural loss function for learning in networks based on the hypothesis that loss is induced when a node fails to acquire a label that is consistent with the labels of the majority of the nodes in its neighborhood. We further combine this with a novel semantic regularizer, which we call homophily regularizer, to capture the smooth transition of discriminatory power and behavior of semantically similar nodes. The proposed structural loss along with the regularizer permits relaxation labeling. Through extensive comparative study on different real-world datasets, we found that our method improves over the state-of-the-art approaches.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11787,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11787,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PA2D-MORL: Pareto Ascent Directional Decomposition Based Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning,Tianmeng Hu;Biao Luo,"Multi-objective reinforcement learning( MORL) provides an effective solution for decision-making problems involving conflicting objectives. However, achieving high-quality approximations to the Pareto policy set remains challenging, especially in complex tasks with continuous or high-dimensional state-action space. In this paper, we propose the Pareto Ascent Directional Decomposition based Multi-Objective Reinforcement Learning( PA2D-MORL) method, which constructs an efficient scheme for multi-objective problem decomposition and policy improvement, leading to a superior approximation of Pareto policy set. The proposed method leverages Pareto ascent direction to select the scalarization weights and computes the multi-objective policy gradient, which determines the policy optimization direction and ensures joint improvement on all objectives. Meanwhile, multiple policies are selectively optimized under an evolutionary framework to approximate the Pareto frontier from different directions. Additionally, a Pareto adaptive fine-tuning approach is applied to enhance the density and spread of the Pareto frontier approximation. Experiments on various multi-objective robot control tasks show that the proposed method clearly outperforms the current state-of-the-art algorithm in terms of both quality and stability of the outcomes.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29148,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29148,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Panoptic Scene Graph Generation with Semantics-Prototype Learning,Li Li;Wei Ji;Yiming Wu;Mengze Li;You Qin;Lina Wei;Roger Zimmermann,"Panoptic Scene Graph Generation( PSG) parses objects and predicts their relationships( predicate) to connect human language and visual scenes. However, different language preferences of annotators and semantic overlaps between predicates lead to biased predicate annotations in the dataset, i. e. different predicates for the same object pairs. Biased predicate annotations make PSG models struggle in constructing a clear decision plane among predicates, which greatly hinders the real application of PSG models. To address the intrinsic bias above, we propose a novel framework named ADTrans to adaptively transfer biased predicate annotations to informative and unified ones. To promise consistency and accuracy during the transfer process, we propose to observe the invariance degree of representations in each predicate class, and learn unbiased prototypes of predicates with different intensities. Meanwhile, we continuously measure the distribution changes between each presentation and its prototype, and constantly screen potentially biased data. Finally, with the unbiased predicate-prototype representation embedding space, biased annotations are easily identified. Experiments show that ADTrans significantly improves the performance of benchmark models, achieving a new state-of-the-art performance, and shows great generalization and effectiveness on multiple datasets. Our code is released at https://github. com/lili0415/PSG-biased-annotation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28098,10.1609/aaai.v38i4.28098,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Pantypes: Diverse Representatives for Self-Explainable Models,Rune Kj\'e6rsgaard;Ahc\'e8ne Boubekki;Line Clemmensen,"Prototypical self-explainable classifiers have emerged to meet the growing demand for interpretable AI systems. These classifiers are designed to incorporate high transparency in their decisions by basing inference on similarity with learned prototypical objects. While these models are designed with diversity in mind, the learned prototypes often do not sufficiently represent all aspects of the input distribution, particularly those in low density regions. Such lack of sufficient data representation, known as representation bias, has been associated with various detrimental properties related to machine learning diversity and fairness. In light of this, we introduce pantypes, a new family of prototypical objects designed to capture the full diversity of the input distribution through a sparse set of objects. We show that pantypes can empower prototypical self-explainable models by occupying divergent regions of the latent space and thus fostering high diversity, interpretability and fairness.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29223,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29223,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Parallel Algorithms for Operations on Multi-Valued Decision Diagrams,Guillaume Perez;Jean-Charles R\'e9gin,"Multi-valued Decision Diagrams( MDDs) have been extensively studied in the last ten years. Recently, efficient algorithms implementing operators such as reduction, union, intersection, difference, etc. , have been designed. They directly deal with the graph structure of the MDD and a time reduction of several orders of magnitude in comparison to other existing algorithms have been observed. These operators have permitted a new look at MDDs, because extremely large MDDs can finally be manipulated as shown by the models used to solve complex application in music generation. However, MDDs become so large( 50GB) that minutes are sometimes required to perform some operations. In order to accelerate the manipulation of MDDs, parallel algorithms are required. In this paper, we introduce such algorithms. We carefully design them in order to overcome inherent difficulties of the parallelization of sequential algorithms such as data dependencies, software lock-out, false sharing, or load balancing. As a result, we observe a speed-up, i. e. ratio between parallel and sequential runtimes, growing linearly with the number of cores.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12210,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12210,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Search and Constraint Satisfaction,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Parameterized Complexity of Logic-Based Argumentation in Schaefers Framework,Yasir Mahmood;Arne Meier;Johannes Schmidt,"Logic-based argumentation is a well-established formalism modeling nonmonotonic reasoning. It has been playing a major role in AI for decades, now. Informally, a set of formulas is the support for a given claim if it is consistent, subset-minimal, and implies the claim. In such a case, the pair of the support and the claim together is called an argument. In this paper, we study the propositional variants of the following three computational tasks studied in argumentation: ARG( exists a support for a given claim with respect to a given set of formulas) , ARG-Check( is a given set a support for a given claim) , and ARG-Rel( similarly as ARG plus requiring an additionally given formula to be contained in the support). ARG-Check is complete for the complexity class DP, and the other two problems are known to be complete for the second level of the polynomial hierarchy and, accordingly, are highly intractable. Analyzing the reason for this intractability, we perform a two-dimensional classification: first, we consider all possible propositional fragments of the problem within Schaefers framework, and then study different parameterizations for each of the fragment. We identify a list of reasonable structural parameters( size of the claim, support, knowledge-base) that are connected to the aforementioned decision problems. Eventually, we thoroughly draw a fine border of parameterized intractability for each of the problems showing where the problems are fixed-parameter tractable and when this exactly stops. Surprisingly, several cases are of very high intractability( paraNP and beyond).",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16797,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16797,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Parameterized Complexity of Small Decision Tree Learning,Sebastian Ordyniak;Stefan Szeider,"We study the NP-hard problem of learning a decision tree( DT) of smallest depth or size from data. We provide the first parameterized complexity analysis of the problem and draw a detailed parameterized complexity map for the natural parameters: size or depth of the DT, maximum domain size of all features, and the maximum Hamming distance between any two examples. Our main result shows that learning DTs of smallest depth or size is fixed-parameter tractable( FPT) parameterized by the combination of all three of these parameters. We contrast this FPT-result by various hardness results that underline the algorithmic significance of the considered parameters.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16800,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16800,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Parameterized Projected Bellman Operator,Th\'e9o Vincent;Alberto Maria Metelli;Boris Belousov;Jan Peters;Marcello Restelli;Carlo D'Eramo,"Approximate value iteration( AVI) is a family of algorithms for reinforcement learning( RL) that aims to obtain an approximation of the optimal value function. Generally, AVI algorithms implement an iterated procedure where each step consists of( i) an application of the Bellman operator and( ii) a projection step into a considered function space. Notoriously, the Bellman operator leverages transition samples, which strongly determine its behavior, as uninformative samples can result in negligible updates or long detours, whose detrimental effects are further exacerbated by the computationally intensive projection step. To address these issues, we propose a novel alternative approach based on learning an approximate version of the Bellman operator rather than estimating it through samples as in AVI approaches. This way, we are able to( i) generalize across transition samples and( ii) avoid the computationally intensive projection step. For this reason, we call our novel operator projected Bellman operator( PBO). We formulate an optimization problem to learn PBO for generic sequential decision-making problems, and we theoretically analyze its properties in two representative classes of RL problems. Furthermore, we theoretically study our approach under the lens of AVI and devise algorithmic implementations to learn PBO in offline and online settings by leveraging neural network parameterizations. Finally, we empirically showcase the benefits of PBO w. r. t. the regular Bellman operator on several RL problems.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29465,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29465,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Parameterizing Branch-and-Bound Search Trees to Learn Branching Policies,Giulia Zarpellon;Jason Jo;Andrea Lodi;Yoshua Bengio,"Branch and Bound( B&B) is the exact tree search method typically used to solve Mixed-Integer Linear Programming problems( MILPs). Learning branching policies for MILP has become an active research area, with most works proposing to imitate the strong branching rule and specialize it to distinct classes of problems. We aim instead at learning a policy that generalizes across heterogeneous MILPs: our main hypothesis is that parameterizing the state of the B&B search tree can aid this type of generalization. We propose a novel imitation learning framework, and introduce new input features and architectures to represent branching. Experiments on MILP benchmark instances clearly show the advantages of incorporating an explicit parameterization of the state of the search tree to modulate the branching decisions, in terms of both higher accuracy and smaller B&B trees. The resulting policies significantly outperform the current state-of-the-art method for learning to branch by effectively allowing generalization to generic unseen instances.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16512,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16512,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Paraphrase Diversification Using Counterfactual Debiasing,Sunghyun Park;Seung-won Hwang;Fuxiang Chen;Jaegul Choo;Jung-Woo Ha;Sunghun Kim;Jinyeong Yim,"The problem of generating a set of diverse paraphrase sentences while( 1) not compromising the original meaning of the original sentence, and( 2) imposing diversity in various semantic aspects, such as a lexical or syntactic structure, is examined. Existing work on paraphrase generation has focused more on the former, and the latter was trained as a fixed style transfer, such as transferring from positive to negative sentiments, even at the cost of losing semantics. In this work, we consider style transfer as a means of imposing diversity, with a paraphrasing correctness constraint that the target sentence must remain a paraphrase of the original sentence. However, our goal is to maximize the diversity for a set of k generated paraphrases, denoted as the diversified paraphrase( DP) problem. Our key contribution is deciding the style guidance at generation towards the direction of increasing the diversity of output with respect to those generated previously. As pre-materializing training data for all style decisions is impractical, we train with biased data, but with debiasing guidance. Compared to state-of-the-art methods, our proposed model can generate more diverse and yet semantically consistent paraphrase sentences. That is, our model, trained with the MSCOCO dataset, achieves the highest embedding scores,. 94/. 95/. 86, similar to state-of-the-art results, but with a lower mBLEU score( more diverse) by 8. 73%.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4665,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016883,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Pareto-Optimal Allocation of Indivisible Goods with Connectivity Constraints,Ayumi Igarashi;Dominik Peters,"We study the problem of allocating indivisible items to agents with additive valuations, under the additional constraint that bundles must be connected in an underlying item graph. Previous work has considered the existence and complexity of fair allocations. We study the problem of finding an allocation that is Pareto-optimal. While it is easy to find an efficient allocation when the underlying graph is a path or a star, the problem is NP-hard for many other graph topologies, even for trees of bounded pathwidth or of maximum degree 3. We show that on a path, there are instances where no Pareto-optimal allocation satisfies envy-freeness up to one good, and that it is NP-hard to decide whether such an allocation exists, even for binary valuations. We also show that, for a path, it is NP-hard to find a Pareto-optimal allocation that satisfies maximin share, but show that a moving-knife algorithm can find such an allocation when agents have binary valuations that have a non-nested interval structure.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4034,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012045,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Participation Incentives in Approval-Based Committee Elections,Martin Bullinger;Chris Dong;Patrick Lederer;Clara Mehler,"In approval-based committee( ABC) voting, the goal is to choose a subset of predefined size of the candidates based on the voters\'92 approval preferences over the candidates. While this problem has attracted significant attention in recent years, the incentives for voters to participate in an election for a given ABC voting rule have been neglected so far. This paper is thus the first to explicitly study this property, typically called participation, for ABC voting rules. In particular, we show that all ABC scoring rules even satisfy group participation, whereas most sequential rules severely fail participation. We furthermore explore several escape routes to the impossibility for sequential ABC voting rules: we prove for many sequential rules that( i) they satisfy participation on laminar profiles, ( ii) voters who approve none of the elected candidates cannot benefit by abstaining, and( iii) it is NP-hard for a voter to decide whether she benefits from abstaining",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28810,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28810,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Participatory Budgeting Designs for the Real World,Roy Fairstein;Gerdus Benad\'e8;Kobi Gal,"Participatory budgeting engages the public in the process of allocating public money to different types of projects. PB designs differ in how voters are asked to express their preferences over candidate projects and how these preferences are aggregated to determine which projects to fund. This paper studies two fundamental questions in PB design. Which voting format and aggregation method to use, and how to evaluate the outcomes of these design decisions? We conduct an extensive empirical study in which 1 800 participants vote in four participatory budgeting elections in a controlled setting to evaluate the practical effects of the choice of voting format and aggregation rule. We find that k-approval leads to the best user experience. With respect to the aggregation rule, greedy aggregation leads to outcomes that are highly sensitive to the input format used and the fraction of the population that participates. The method of equal shares, in contrast, leads to outcomes that are not sensitive to the type of voting format used, and these outcomes are remarkably stable even when the majority of the population does not participate in the election. These results carry valuable insights for PB practitioners and social choice researchers.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25699,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25699,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Participatory Budgeting with Donations and Diversity Constraints,Jiehua Chen;Martin Lackner;Jan Maly,"Participatory budgeting( PB) is a democratic process where citizens jointly decide on how to allocate public funds to indivisible projects. In this work, we focus on PB processes where citizens may provide additional money to projects they want to see funded. We introduce a formal framework for this kind of PB with donations. Our framework also allows for diversity constraints, meaning that each project belongs to one or more types, and there are lower and upper bounds on the number of projects of the same type that can be funded. We propose three general classes of methods for aggregating the citizens\'92 preferences in the presence of donations and analyze their axiomatic properties. Furthermore, we investigate the computational complexity of determining the outcome of a PB process with donations and of finding a citizen\'92s optimal donation strategy.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21163,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21163,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Partner-Aware Algorithms in Decentralized Cooperative Bandit Teams,Erdem Biyik;Anusha Lalitha;Rajarshi Saha;Andrea Goldsmith;Dorsa Sadigh,"When humans collaborate with each other, they often make decisions by observing others and considering the consequences that their actions may have on the entire team, instead of greedily doing what is best for just themselves. We would like our AI agents to effectively collaborate in a similar way by capturing a model of their partners. In this work, we propose and analyze a decentralized Multi-Armed Bandit( MAB) problem with coupled rewards as an abstraction of more general multi-agent collaboration. We demonstrate that naive extensions of single-agent optimal MAB algorithms fail when applied for decentralized bandit teams. Instead, we propose a Partner-Aware strategy for joint sequential decision-making that extends the well-known single-agent Upper Confidence Bound algorithm. We analytically show that our proposed strategy achieves logarithmic regret, and provide extensive experiments involving human-AI and human-robot collaboration to validate our theoretical findings. Our results show that the proposed partner-aware strategy outperforms other known methods, and our human subject studies suggest humans prefer to collaborate with AI agents implementing our partner-aware strategy.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21158,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21158,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PASS: Patch Automatic Skip Scheme for Efficient Real-Time Video Perception on Edge Devices,Qihua Zhou;Song Guo;Jun Pan;Jiacheng Liang;Zhenda Xu;Jingren Zhou,"Real-time video perception tasks are often challenging over the resource-constrained edge devices due to the concerns of accuracy drop and hardware overhead, where saving computations is the key to performance improvement. Existing methods either rely on domain-specific neural chips or priorly searched models, which require specialized optimization according to different task properties. In this work, we propose a general and task-independent Patch Automatic Skip Scheme( PASS) , a novel end-to-end learning pipeline to support diverse video perception settings by decoupling acceleration and tasks. The gist is to capture the temporal similarity across video frames and skip the redundant computations at patch level, where the patch is a non-overlapping square block in visual. PASS equips each convolution layer with a learnable gate to selectively determine which patches could be safely skipped without degrading model accuracy. As to each layer, a desired gate needs to make flexible skip decisions based on intermediate features without any annotations, which cannot be achieved by conventional supervised learning paradigm. To address this challenge, we are the first to construct a tough self-supervisory procedure for optimizing these gates, which learns to extract contrastive representation, i. e. , distinguishing similarity and difference, from frame sequence. These high-capacity gates can serve as a plug-and-play module for convolutional neural network( CNN) backbones to implement patch-skippable architectures, and automatically generate proper skip strategy to accelerate different video-based downstream tasks, e. g. , outperforming the state-of-the-art MobileHumanPose( MHP) in 3D pose estimation and FairMOT in multiple object tracking, by up to 9. 43 times and 12. 19 times speedups, respectively. By directly processing the raw data of frames, PASS can generalize to real-time video streams on commodity edge devices, e. g. , NVIDIA Jetson Nano, with efficient performance in realistic deployment.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25491,10.1609/aaai.v37i3.25491,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PateGail: A Privacy-Preserving Mobility Trajectory Generator with Imitation Learning,Huandong Wang;Changzheng Gao;Yuchen Wu;Depeng Jin;Lina Yao;Yong Li,"Generating human mobility trajectories is of great importance to solve the lack of large-scale trajectory data in numerous applications, which is caused by privacy concerns. However, existing mobility trajectory generation methods still require real-world human trajectories centrally collected as the training data, where there exists an inescapable risk of privacy leakage. To overcome this limitation, in this paper, we propose PateGail, a privacy-preserving imitation learning model to generate mobility trajectories, which utilizes the powerful generative adversary imitation learning model to simulate the decision-making process of humans. Further, in order to protect user privacy, we train this model collectively based on decentralized mobility data stored in user devices, where personal discriminators are trained locally to distinguish and reward the real and generated human trajectories. In the training process, only the generated trajectories and their rewards obtained based on personal discriminators are shared between the server and devices, whose privacy is further preserved by our proposed perturbation mechanisms with theoretical proof to satisfy differential privacy. Further, to better model the human decision-making process, we propose a novel aggregation mechanism of the rewards obtained from personal discriminators. We theoretically prove that under the reward obtained based on the aggregation mechanism, our proposed model maximizes the lower bound of the discounted total rewards of users. Extensive experiments show that the trajectories generated by our model are able to resemble real-world trajectories in terms of five key statistical metrics, outperforming state-of-the-art algorithms by over 48. 03%. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the synthetic trajectories are able to efficiently support practical applications, including mobility prediction and location recommendation.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26700,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26700,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Path-Specific Counterfactual Fairness,Silvia Chiappa,"We consider the problem of learning fair decision systems from data in which a sensitive attribute might affect the decision along both fair and unfair pathways. We introduce a counterfactual approach to disregard effects along unfair pathways that does not incur in the same loss of individual-specific information as previous approaches. Our method corrects observations adversely affected by the sensitive attribute, and uses these to form a decision. We leverage recent developments in deep learning and approximate inference to develop a VAE-type method that is widely applicable to complex nonlinear models.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4777,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017801,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Paths, Proofs, and Perfection: Developing a Human-Interpretable Proof System for Constrained Shortest Paths",Konstantin Sidorov;Gon\'e7alo Homem de Almeida Correia;Mathijs de Weerdt;Emir Demirovi\uc0\u263 ,"People want to rely on optimization algorithms for complex decisions but verifying the optimality of the solutions can then become a valid concern, particularly for critical decisions taken by non-experts in optimization. One example is the shortest-path problem on a network, occurring in many contexts from transportation to logistics to telecommunications. While the standard shortest-path problem is both solvable in polynomial time and certifiable by duality, introducing side constraints makes solving and certifying the solutions much harder. We propose a proof system for constrained shortest-path problems, which gives a set of logical rules to derive new facts about feasible solutions. The key trait of the proposed proof system is that it specifically includes high-level graph concepts within its reasoning steps( such as connectivity or path structure) , in contrast to, e. g. , using linear combinations of model constraints. Thus, using our proof system, we can provide a step-by-step, human-auditable explanation showing that the path given by an external solver cannot be improved. Additionally, to maximize the advantages of this setup, we propose a proof search procedure that specifically aims to find small proofs of this form using a procedure similar to A* search. We evaluate our proof system on constrained shortest path instances generated from real-world road networks and experimentally show that we may indeed derive more interpretable proofs compared to an integer programming approach, in some cases leading to much smaller proofs.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30068,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30068,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PATRON: Perspective-Aware Multitask Model for Referring Expression Grounding Using Embodied Multimodal Cues,Md Mofijul Islam;Alexi Gladstone;Tariq Iqbal,"Humans naturally use referring expressions with verbal utterances and nonverbal gestures to refer to objects and events. As these referring expressions can be interpreted differently from the speakers or the observers perspective, people effectively decide on the perspective in comprehending the expressions. However, existing models do not explicitly learn perspective grounding, which often causes the models to perform poorly in understanding embodied referring expressions. To make it exacerbate, these models are often trained on datasets collected in non-embodied settings without nonverbal gestures and curated from an exocentric perspective. To address these issues, in this paper, we present a perspective-aware multitask learning model, called PATRON, for relation and object grounding tasks in embodied settings by utilizing verbal utterances and nonverbal cues. In PATRON, we have developed a guided fusion approach, where a perspective grounding task guides the relation and object grounding task. Through this approach, PATRON learns disentangled task-specific and task-guidance representations, where task-guidance representations guide the extraction of salient multimodal features to ground the relation and object accurately. Furthermore, we have curated a synthetic dataset of embodied referring expressions with multimodal cues, called CAESAR-PRO. The experimental results suggest that PATRON outperforms the evaluated state-of-the-art visual-language models. Additionally, the results indicate that learning to ground perspective helps machine learning models to improve the performance of the relation and object grounding task. Furthermore, the insights from the extensive experimental results and the proposed dataset will enable researchers to evaluate visual-language models effectiveness in understanding referring expressions in other embodied settings.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25177,10.1609/aaai.v37i1.25177,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Performance and Preferences: Interactive Refinement of Machine Learning Procedures,Ashish Kapoor;Bongshin Lee;Desney Tan;Eric Horvitz,"Problem-solving procedures have been typically aimed at achieving well-defined goals or satisfying straightforward preferences. However, learners and solvers may often generate rich multiattribute results with procedures guided by sets of controls that define different dimensions of quality. We explore methods that enable people to explore and express preferences about the operation of classification models in supervised multiclass learning. We leverage a leave-one-out confusion matrix that provides users with views and real-time controls of a model space. The approach allows people to consider in an interactive manner the global implications of local changes in decision boundaries. We focus on kernel classifiers and show the effectiveness of the methodology on a variety of tasks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8340,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8340,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Multidisciplinary Topics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Performance Guarantees for Homomorphisms beyond Markov Decision Processes,Sultan Javed Majeed;Marcus Hutter,"Most real-world problems have huge state and/or action spaces. Therefore, a naive application of existing tabular solution methods is not tractable on such problems. Nonetheless, these solution methods are quite useful if an agent has access to a relatively small state-action space homomorphism of the true environment and near-optimal performance is guaranteed by the map. A plethora of research is focused on the case when the homomorphism is a Markovian representation of the underlying process. However, we show that nearoptimal performance is sometimes guaranteed even if the homomorphism is non-Markovian.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4760,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017659,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Performative Federated Learning: A Solution to Model-Dependent and Heterogeneous Distribution Shifts,Kun Jin;Tongxin Yin;Zhongzhu Chen;Zeyu Sun;Xueru Zhang;Yang Liu;Mingyan Liu,"We consider a federated learning( FL) system consisting of multiple clients and a server, where the clients aim to collaboratively learn a common decision model from their distributed data. Unlike the conventional FL framework that assumes the clients data is static, we consider scenarios where the clients data distributions may be reshaped by the deployed decision model. In this work, we leverage the idea of distribution shift mappings in performative prediction to formalize this model-dependent data distribution shift and propose a performative FL framework. We first introduce necessary and sufficient conditions for the existence of a unique performative stable solution and characterize its distance to the performative optimal solution. Then we propose the performative FedAvg algorithm and show that it converges to the performative stable solution at a rate of O( 1/T) under both full and partial participation schemes. In particular, we use novel proof techniques and show how the clients heterogeneity influences the convergence. Numerical results validate our analysis and provide valuable insights into real-world applications.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29191,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29191,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Perpetual Voting: Fairness in Long-Term Decision Making,Martin Lackner,"In this paper we introduce a new voting formalism to support long-term collective decision making: perpetual voting rules. These are voting rules that take the history of previous decisions into account. Due to this additional information, perpetual voting rules may offer temporal fairness guarantees that cannot be achieved in singular decisions. In particular, such rules may enable minorities to have a fair( proportional) influence on the decision process and thus foster long-term participation of minorities. This paper explores the proposed voting rules via an axiomatic analysis as well as a quantitative evaluation by computer simulations. We identify two perpetual voting rules as particularly recommendable in long-term collective decision making.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5584,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5584,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Personalized Reinforcement Learning with a Budget of Policies,Dmitry Ivanov;Omer Ben-Porat,"Personalization in machine learning( ML) tailors models decisions to the individual characteristics of users. While this approach has seen success in areas like recommender systems, its expansion into high-stakes fields such as healthcare and autonomous driving is hindered by the extensive regulatory approval processes involved. To address this challenge, we propose a novel framework termed represented Markov Decision Processes( r-MDPs) that is designed to balance the need for personalization with the regulatory constraints. In an r-MDP, we cater to a diverse user population, each with unique preferences, through interaction with a small set of representative policies. Our objective is twofold: efficiently match each user to an appropriate representative policy and simultaneously optimize these policies to maximize overall social welfare. We develop two deep reinforcement learning algorithms that efficiently solve r-MDPs. These algorithms draw inspiration from the principles of classic K-means clustering and are underpinned by robust theoretical foundations. Our empirical investigations, conducted across a variety of simulated environments, showcase the algorithms ability to facilitate meaningful personalization even under constrained policy budgets. Furthermore, they demonstrate scalability, efficiently adapting to larger policy budgets.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29169,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29169,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Personalized Robot Tutoring Using the Assistive Tutor POMDP( AT-POMDP),Aditi Ramachandran;Sarah Strohkorb Sebo;Brian Scassellati,"Selecting appropriate tutoring help actions that account for both a student\'92s content mastery and engagement level is essential for effective human tutors, indicating the critical need for these skills in autonomous tutors. In this work, we formulate the robot-student tutoring help action selection problem as the Assistive Tutor partially observable Markov decision process( AT-POMDP). We designed the AT-POMDP and derived its parameters based on data from a prior robot-student tutoring study. The policy that results from solving the AT-POMDP allows a robot tutor to decide upon the optimal tutoring help action to give a student, while maintaining a belief of the student\'92s mastery of the material and engagement with the task. This approach is validated through a between-subjects field study, which involved 4th grade students( n=28) interacting with a social robot solving long division problems over five sessions. Students who received help from a robot using the AT-POMDP policy demonstrated significantly greater learning gains than students who received help from a robot with a fixed help action selection policy. Our results demonstrate that this robust computational framework can be used effectively to deliver diverse and personalized tutoring support over time for students.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4807,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33018050,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Robotics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PIDS: An Intelligent Electric Power Management Platform,Yongqing Zheng;Han Yu;Yuliang Shi;Kun Zhang;Shuai Zhen;Lizhen Cui;Cyril Leung;Chunyan Miao,"Electricity information tracking systems are increasingly being adopted across China. Such systems can collect real-time power consumption data from users, and provide opportunities for artificial intelligence( AI) to help power companies and authorities make optimal demand-side management decisions. In this paper, we discuss power utilization improvement in Shandong Province, China with a deployed AI application - the Power Intelligent Decision Support( PIDS) platform. Based on improved short-term power consumption gap prediction, PIDS uses an optimal power adjustment plan which enables fine-grained Demand Response( DR) and Orderly Power Utilization( OPU) recommendations to ensure stable operation while minimizing power disruptions and improving fair treatment of participating companies. Deployed in August 2018, the platform is helping over 400 companies optimize their power consumption through DR while dynamically managing the OPU process for around 10, 000 companies. Compared to the previous system, power outage under PIDS through planned shutdown has been reduced from 16% to 0. 56%, resulting in significant gains in economic activities.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/7027,10.1609/aaai.v34i08.7027,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Deployed Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Piecewise Linear Transformation \'96 Propagating Aleatoric Uncertainty in Neural Networks,Thomas Krapf;Michael Hagn;Paul Miethaner;Alexander Schiller;Lucas Luttner;Bernd Heinrich,"Real-world data typically exhibit aleatoric uncertainty which has to be considered during data-driven decision-making to assess the confidence of the decision provided by machine learning models. To propagate aleatoric uncertainty represented by probability distributions( PDs) through neural networks( NNs) , both sampling-based and function approximation-based methods have been proposed. However, these methods suffer from significant approximation errors and are not able to accurately represent predictive uncertainty in the NN output. In this paper, we present a novel method, Piecewise Linear Transformation( PLT) , for propagating PDs through NNs with piecewise linear activation functions( e. g. , ReLU NNs). PLT does not require sampling or specific assumptions about the PDs. Instead, it harnesses the piecewise linear structure of such NNs to determine the propagated PD in the output space. In this way, PLT supports the accurate quantification of predictive uncertainty based on the criterion exactness of the propagated PD. We assess this exactness in theory by showing error bounds for our propagated PD. Further, our experimental evaluation validates that PLT outperforms competing methods on publicly available real-world classification and regression datasets regarding exactness. Thus, the PDs propagated by PLT allow to assess the uncertainty of the provided decisions, offering valuable support.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30029,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30029,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Pizza Sharing Is PPA-Hard,Argyrios Deligkas;John Fearnley;Themistoklis Melissourgos,"We study the computational complexity of computing solutions for the straight-cut and square-cut pizza sharing problems. We show that finding an approximate solution is PPA-hard for the straight-cut problem, and PPA-complete for the square-cut problem, while finding an exact solution for the square-cut problem is FIXP-hard and in BU. Our PPA-hardness results apply even when all mass distributions are unions of non-overlapping squares, and our FIXP-hardness result applies even when all mass distributions are unions of weighted squares and right-angled triangles. We also prove that decision variants of the square-cut problem are hard: the approximate problem is NP-complete, and the exact problem is ETR-complete.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20426,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20426,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning and Learning for Decentralized MDPs With Event Driven Rewards,Tarun Gupta;Akshat Kumar;Praveen Paruchuri,"Decentralized( PO) MDPs provide a rigorous framework for sequential multiagent decision making under uncertainty. However, their high computational complexity limits the practical impact. To address scalability and real-world impact, we focus on settings where a large number of agents primarily interact through complex joint-rewards that depend on their entire histories of states and actions. Such history-based rewards encapsulate the notion of events or tasks such that the team reward is given only when the joint-task is completed. Algorithmically, we contribute---1) A nonlinear programming( NLP) formulation for such event-based planning model; 2) A probabilistic inference based approach that scales much better than NLP solvers for a large number of agents; 3) A policy gradient based multiagent reinforcement learning approach that scales well even for exponential state-spaces. Our inference and RL-based advances enable us to solve a large real-world multiagent coverage problem modeling schedule coordination of agents in a real urban subway network where other approaches fail to scale.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12096,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12096,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning and Learning for Non-markovian Negative Side Effects Using Finite State Controllers,Aishwarya Srivastava;Sandhya Saisubramanian;Praveen Paruchuri;Akshat Kumar;Shlomo Zilberstein,"Autonomous systems are often deployed in the open world where it is hard to obtain complete specifications of objectives and constraints. Operating based on an incomplete model can produce negative side effects( NSEs) , which affect the safety and reliability of the system. We focus on mitigating NSEs in environments modeled as Markov decision processes( MDPs). First, we learn a model of NSEs using observed data that contains state-action trajectories and severity of associated NSEs. Unlike previous works that associate NSEs with state-action pairs, our framework associates NSEs with entire trajectories, which is more general and captures non-Markovian dependence on states and actions. Second, we learn finite state controllers( FSCs) that predict NSE severity for a given trajectory and generalize well to unseen data. Finally, we develop a constrained MDP model that uses information from the underlying MDP and the learned FSC for planning while avoiding NSEs. Our empirical evaluation demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach in learning and mitigating Markovian and non-Markovian NSEs.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26767,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26767,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning in Factored Action Spaces with Symbolic Dynamic Programming,Aswin Raghavan;Saket Joshi;Alan Fern;Prasad Tadepalli;Roni Khardon,"We consider symbolic dynamic programming( SDP) for solving Markov Decision Processes( MDP) with factored state and action spaces, where both states and actions are described by sets of discrete variables. Prior work on SDP has considered only the case of factored states and ignored structure in the action space, causing them to scale poorly in terms of the number of action variables. Our main contribution is to present the first SDP-based planning algorithm for leveraging both state and action space structure in order to compute compactly represented value functions and policies. Since our new algorithm can potentially require more space than when action structure is ignored, our second contribution is to describe an approach for smoothly trading-off space versus time via recursive conditioning. Finally, our third contribution is to introduce a novel SDP approximation that often significantly reduces planning time with little loss in quality by exploiting action structure in weakly coupled MDPs. We present empirical results in three domains with factored action spaces that show that our algorithms scale much better with the number of action variables as compared to state-of-the-art SDP algorithms.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8364,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8364,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Reasoning about Plans, Processes and Actions",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning to Avoid Side Effects,Toryn Q. Klassen;Sheila A. McIlraith;Christian Muise;Jarvis Xu,"In sequential decision making, objective specifications are often underspecified or incomplete, neglecting to take into account potential( negative) side effects. Executing plans without consideration of their side effects can lead to catastrophic outcomes -- a concern recently raised in relation to the safety of AI. In this paper we investigate how to avoid side effects in a symbolic planning setting. We study the notion of minimizing side effects in the context of a planning environment where multiple independent agents co-exist. We define( classes of) negative side effects in terms of their effect on the agency of those other agents. Finally, we show how plans which minimize side effects of different types can be computed via compilations to cost-optimizing symbolic planning, and investigate experimentally.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21219,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21219,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning with Abstract Learned Models While Learning Transferable Subtasks,John Winder;Stephanie Milani;Matthew Landen;Erebus Oh;Shane Parr;Shawn Squire;Marie desJardins;Cynthia Matuszek,"We introduce an algorithm for model-based hierarchical reinforcement learning to acquire self-contained transition and reward models suitable for probabilistic planning at multiple levels of abstraction. We call this framework Planning with Abstract Learned Models( PALM). By representing subtasks symbolically using a new formal structure, the lifted abstract Markov decision process( L-AMDP) , PALM learns models that are independent and modular. Through our experiments, we show how PALM integrates planning and execution, facilitating a rapid and efficient learning of abstract, hierarchical models. We also demonstrate the increased potential for learned models to be transferred to new and related tasks.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6555,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6555,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning with Explanations for Finding Desired Meeting Points on Graphs,Keisuke Otaki,"Combinatorial optimization problems are ubiquitous for decision making in planning social infrastructures. In real-world scenarios, a decision-maker needs to solve his/her problem iteratively until he/she satisfies solutions, but such an iterative process remains challenging. This paper studies a new explainable framework, particularly for finding meeting points, which is a key optimization problem for designing facility locations. Our framework automatically fills the gap between its input instance and instances from which a user could obtain the desired outcome, where computed solutions are judged by the user. The framework also provides users with explanations, representing the difference of instances for deeply understanding the process and its inside. Explanations are clues for users to understand their situation and implement suggested results in practice( e. g. , designing a coupon for free travel). We experimentally demonstrate that our search-based framework is promising to solve instances with generating explanations in a sequential decision-making process.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21273,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21273,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning with Hidden Parameter Polynomial MDPs,Clarissa Costen;Marc Rigter;Bruno Lacerda;Nick Hawes,"For many applications of Markov Decision Processes( MDPs) , the transition function cannot be specified exactly. Bayes-Adaptive MDPs( BAMDPs) extend MDPs to consider transition probabilities governed by latent parameters. To act optimally in BAMDPs, one must maintain a belief distribution over the latent parameters. Typically, this distribution is described by a set of sample( particle) MDPs, and associated weights which represent the likelihood of a sample MDP being the true underlying MDP. However, as the number of dimensions of the latent parameter space increases, the number of sample MDPs required to sufficiently represent the belief distribution grows exponentially. Thus, maintaining an accurate belief in the form of a set of sample MDPs over complex latent spaces is computationally intensive, which in turn affects the performance of planning for these models. In this paper, we propose an alternative approach for maintaining the belief over the latent parameters. We consider a class of BAMDPs where the transition probabilities can be expressed in closed form as a polynomial of the latent parameters, and outline a method to maintain a closed-form belief distribution for the latent parameters which results in an accurate belief representation. Furthermore, the closed-form representation does away with the need to tune the number of sample MDPs required to represent the belief. We evaluate two domains and empirically show that the polynomial, closed-form, belief representation results in better plans than a sampling-based belief representation.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26411,10.1609/aaai.v37i10.26411,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Planning with Participation Constraints,Hanrui Zhang;Yu Cheng;Vincent Conitzer,"We pose and study the problem of planning in Markov decision processes( MDPs) , subject to participation constraints as studied in mechanism design. In this problem, a planner must work with a self-interested agent on a given MDP. Each action in the MDP provides an immediate reward to the planner and a( possibly different) reward to the agent. The agent has no control in choosing the actions, but has the option to end the entire process at any time. The goal of the planner is to find a policy that maximizes her cumulative reward, taking into consideration the agents ability to terminate. We give a fully polynomial-time approximation scheme for this problem. En route, we present polynomial-time algorithms for computing( exact) optimal policies for important special cases of this problem, including when the time horizon is constant, or when the MDP exhibits a definitive decisions property. We illustrate our algorithms with two different game-theoretic applications: the problem of assigning rides in ride-sharing and the problem of designing screening policies. Our results imply efficient algorithms for computing( approximately) optimal policies in both applications.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20462,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20462,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Playing FPS Games with Deep Reinforcement Learning,Guillaume Lample;Devendra Singh Chaplot,"Advances in deep reinforcement learning have allowed autonomous agents to perform well on Atari games, often outperforming humans, using only raw pixels to make their decisions. However, most of these games take place in 2D environments that are fully observable to the agent. In this paper, we present the first architecture to tackle 3D environments in first-person shooter games, that involve partially observable states. Typically, deep reinforcement learning methods only utilize visual input for training. We present a method to augment these models to exploit game feature information such as the presence of enemies or items, during the training phase. Our model is trained to simultaneously learn these features along with minimizing a Q-learning objective, which is shown to dramatically improve the training speed and performance of our agent. Our architecture is also modularized to allow different models to be independently trained for different phases of the game. We show that the proposed architecture substantially outperforms built-in AI agents of the game as well as average humans in deathmatch scenarios.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10827,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10827,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Point-Based Methods for Model Checking in Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes,Maxime Bouton;Jana Tumova;Mykel J. Kochenderfer,"Autonomous systems are often required to operate in partially observable environments. They must reliably execute a specified objective even with incomplete information about the state of the environment. We propose a methodology to synthesize policies that satisfy a linear temporal logic formula in a partially observable Markov decision process( POMDP). By formulating a planning problem, we show how to use point-based value iteration methods to efficiently approximate the maximum probability of satisfying a desired logical formula and compute the associated belief state policy. We demonstrate that our method scales to large POMDP domains and provides strong bounds on the performance of the resulting policy.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6563,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6563,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Policy Learning for Robust Markov Decision Process with a Mismatched Generative Model,Jialian Li;Tongzheng Ren;Dong Yan;Hang Su;Jun Zhu,"In high-stake scenarios like medical treatment and auto-piloting, its risky or even infeasible to collect online experimental data to train the agent. Simulation-based training can alleviate this issue, but may suffer from its inherent mismatches from the simulator and real environment. It is therefore imperative to utilize the simulator to learn a robust policy for the real-world deployment. In this work, we consider policy learning for Robust Markov Decision Processes( RMDP) , where the agent tries to seek a robust policy with respect to unexpected perturbations on the environments. Specifically, we focus on the setting where the training environment can be characterized as a generative model and a constrained perturbation can be added to the model during testing. Our goal is to identify a near-optimal robust policy for the perturbed testing environment, which introduces additional technical difficulties as we need to simultaneously estimate the training environment uncertainty from samples and find the worst-case perturbation for testing. To solve this issue, we propose a generic method which formalizes the perturbation as an opponent to obtain a two-player zero-sum game, and further show that the Nash Equilibrium corresponds to the robust policy. We prove that, with a polynomial number of samples from the generative model, our algorithm can find a near-optimal robust policy with a high probability. Our method is able to deal with general perturbations under some mild assumptions and can also be extended to more complex problems like robust partial observable Markov decision process, thanks to the game-theoretical formulation.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20705,10.1609/aaai.v36i7.20705,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Policy Optimization with Model-Based Explorations,Feiyang Pan;Qingpeng Cai;An-Xiang Zeng;Chun-Xiang Pan;Qing Da;Hualin He;Qing He;Pingzhong Tang,"Model-free reinforcement learning methods such as the Proximal Policy Optimization algorithm( PPO) have successfully applied in complex decision-making problems such as Atari games. However, these methods suffer from high variances and high sample complexity. On the other hand, model-based reinforcement learning methods that learn the transition dynamics are more sample efficient, but they often suffer from the bias of the transition estimation. How to make use of both model-based and model-free learning is a central problem in reinforcement learning. In this paper, we present a new technique to address the tradeoff between exploration and exploitation, which regards the difference between model-free and model-based estimations as a measure of exploration value. We apply this new technique to the PPO algorithm and arrive at a new policy optimization method, named Policy Optimization with Modelbased Explorations( POME). POME uses two components to predict the actions\'92 target values: a model-free one estimated by Monte-Carlo sampling and a model-based one which learns a transition model and predicts the value of the next state. POME adds the error of these two target estimations as the additional exploration value for each state-action pair, i. e, encourages the algorithm to explore the states with larger target errors which are hard to estimate. We compare POME with PPO on Atari 2600 games, and it shows that POME outperforms PPO on 33 games out of 49 games.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4392,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014675,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Policy-Based Primal-Dual Methods for Convex Constrained Markov Decision Processes,Donghao Ying;Mengzi Amy Guo;Yuhao Ding;Javad Lavaei;Zuo-Jun Shen,"We study convex Constrained Markov Decision Processes( CMDPs) in which the objective is concave and the constraints are convex in the state-action occupancy measure. We propose a policy-based primal-dual algorithm that updates the primal variable via policy gradient ascent and updates the dual variable via projected sub-gradient descent. Despite the loss of additivity structure and the nonconvex nature, we establish the global convergence of the proposed algorithm by leveraging a hidden convexity in the problem, and prove the O( T^-1/3) convergence rate in terms of both optimality gap and constraint violation. When the objective is strongly concave in the occupancy measure, we prove an improved convergence rate of O( T^-1/2). By introducing a pessimistic term to the constraint, we further show that a zero constraint violation can be achieved while preserving the same convergence rate for the optimality gap. This work is the first one in the literature that establishes non-asymptotic convergence guarantees for policy-based primal-dual methods for solving infinite-horizon discounted convex CMDPs.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26299,10.1609/aaai.v37i9.26299,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Polynomial-Time Probabilistic Reasoning with Partial Observations via Implicit Learning in Probability Logics,Brendan Juba,"Standard approaches to probabilistic reasoning require that one possesses an explicit model of the distribution in question. But, the empirical learning of models of probability distributions from partial observations is a problem for which efficient algorithms are generally not known. In this work we consider the use of bounded-degree fragments of the \'93sum-of-squares\'94 logic as a probability logic. Prior work has shown that we can decide refutability for such fragments in polynomial-time. We propose to use such fragments to decide queries about whether a given probability distribution satisfies a given system of constraints and bounds on expected values. We show that in answering such queries, such constraints and bounds can be implicitly learned from partial observations in polynomial-time as well. It is known that this logic is capable of deriving many bounds that are useful in probabilistic analysis. We show here that it furthermore captures key polynomial-time fragments of resolution. Thus, these fragments are also quite expressive.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4785,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017866,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,POMDP-Based Decision Making for Fast Event Handling in VANETs,Shuo Chen;Athirai Irissappane;Jie Zhang,"Malicious vehicle agents broadcast fake information about traffic events and thereby undermine the benefits of vehicle-to-vehicle communication in vehicular ad-hoc networks( VANETs). Trust management schemes addressing this issue do not focus on effective/fast decision making in reacting to traffic events. We propose a Partially Observable Markov Decision Process( POMDP) based approach to balance the trade-off between information gathering and exploiting actions resulting in faster responses. Our model copes with malicious behavior by maintaining it as part of a small state space, thus is scalable for large VANETs. We also propose an algorithm to learn model parameters in a dynamic behavior setting. Experimental results demonstrate that our model can effectively balance the decision quality and response time while still being robust to sophisticated malicious attacks.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11577,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11577,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,POMDPs Make Better Hackers: Accounting for Uncertainty in Penetration Testing,Carlos Sarraute;Olivier Buffet;J\'f6rg Hoffmann,"Penetration Testing is a methodology for assessing network security, by generating and executing possible hacking attacks. Doing so automatically allows for regular and systematic testing. A key question is how to generate the attacks. This is naturally formulated as planning under uncertainty, i. e. , under incomplete knowledge about the network configuration. Previous work uses classical planning, and requires costly pre-processes reducing this uncertainty by extensive application of scanning methods. By contrast, we herein model the attack planning problem in terms of partially observable Markov decision processes( POMDP). This allows to reason about the knowledge available, and to intelligently employ scanning actions as part of the attack. As one would expect, this accurate solution does not scale. We devise a method that relies on POMDPs to find good attacks on individual machines, which are then composed into an attack on the network as a whole. This decomposition exploits network structure to the extent possible, making targeted approximations( only) where needed. Evaluating this method on a suitably adapted industrial test suite, we demonstrate its effectiveness in both runtime and solution quality.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8363,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8363,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Reasoning about Plans, Processes and Actions",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Pose-Assisted Multi-Camera Collaboration for Active Object Tracking,Jing Li;Jing Xu;Fangwei Zhong;Xiangyu Kong;Yu Qiao;Yizhou Wang,"Active Object Tracking( AOT) is crucial to many vision-based applications, e. g. , mobile robot, intelligent surveillance. However, there are a number of challenges when deploying active tracking in complex scenarios, e. g. , target is frequently occluded by obstacles. In this paper, we extend the single-camera AOT to a multi-camera setting, where cameras tracking a target in a collaborative fashion. To achieve effective collaboration among cameras, we propose a novel Pose-Assisted Multi-Camera Collaboration System, which enables a camera to cooperate with the others by sharing camera poses for active object tracking. In the system, each camera is equipped with two controllers and a switcher: The vision-based controller tracks targets based on observed images. The pose-based controller moves the camera in accordance to the poses of the other cameras. At each step, the switcher decides which action to take from the two controllers according to the visibility of the target. The experimental results demonstrate that our system outperforms all the baselines and is capable of generalizing to unseen environments. The code and demo videos are available on our website https://sites. google. com/view/pose-assisted-collaboration.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5419,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5419,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PoseHD: Boosting Human Detectors Using Human Pose Information,Zhijian Liu;Bowen Pan;Yuliang Xiu;Cewu Lu,"As most recently proposed methods for human detection have achieved a sufficiently high recall rate within a reasonable number of proposals, in this paper, we mainly focus on how to improve the precision rate of human detectors. In order to address the two main challenges in precision improvement, i. e. , i) hard background instances and ii) redundant partial proposals, we propose the novel PoseHD framework, a top-down pose-based approach on the basis of an arbitrary state-of-the-art human detector. In our proposed PoseHD framework, we first make use of human pose estimation( in a batch manner) and present pose heatmap classification( by a convolutional neural network) to eliminate hard negatives by extracting the more detailed structural information; then, we utilize pose-based proposal clustering and reranking modules, filtering redundant partial proposals by comprehensively considering both holistic and part information. The experimental results on multiple pedestrian benchmark datasets validate that our proposed PoseHD framework can generally improve the overall performance of recent state-of-the-art human detectors( by 2-4% in both mAP and MR metrics). Moreover, our PoseHD framework can be easily extended to object detection with large-scale object part annotations. Finally, in this paper, we present extensive ablative analysis to compare our approach with these traditional bottom-up pose-based models and highlight the importance of our framework design decisions.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12285,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12285,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Post-training Quantization with Multiple Points: Mixed Precision without Mixed Precision,Xingchao Liu;Mao Ye;Dengyong Zhou;Qiang Liu,"We consider the post-training quantization problem, which discretizes the weights of pre-trained deep neural networks without re-training the model. We propose multipoint quantization, a quantization method that approximates a full-precision weight vector using a linear combination of multiple vectors of low-bit numbers; this is in contrast to typical quantization methods that approximate each weight using a single low precision number. Computationally, we construct the multipoint quantization with an efficient greedy selection procedure, and adaptively decides the number of low precision points on each quantized weight vector based on the error of its output. This allows us to achieve higher precision levels for important weights that greatly influence the outputs, yielding an ``effect of mixed precision but without physical mixed precision implementations( which requires specialized hardware accelerators). Empirically, our method can be implemented by common operands, bringing almost no memory and computation overhead. We show that our method outperforms a range of state-of-the-art methods on ImageNet classification and it can be generalized to more challenging tasks like PASCAL VOC object detection.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17054,10.1609/aaai.v35i10.17054,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,POST: POlicy-Based Switch Tracking,Ning Wang;Wengang Zhou;Guojun Qi;Houqiang Li,"In visual object tracking, by reasonably fusing multiple experts, ensemble framework typically achieves superior performance compared to the individual experts. However, the necessity of parallelly running all the experts in most existing ensemble frameworks heavily limits their efficiency. In this paper, we propose POST, a POlicy-based Switch Tracker for robust and efficient visual tracking. The proposed POST tracker consists of multiple weak but complementary experts( trackers) and adaptively assigns one suitable expert for tracking in each frame. By formulating this expert switch in consecutive frames as a decision-making problem, we learn an agent via reinforcement learning to directly decide which expert to handle the current frame without running others. In this way, the proposed POST tracker maintains the performance merit of multiple diverse models while favorably ensuring the tracking efficiency. Extensive ablation studies and experimental comparisons against state-of-the-art trackers on 5 prevalent benchmarks verify the effectiveness of the proposed method.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6899,10.1609/aaai.v34i07.6899,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PowRL: A Reinforcement Learning Framework for Robust Management of Power Networks,Anandsingh Chauhan;Mayank Baranwal;Ansuma Basumatary,"Power grids, across the world, play an important societal and economical role by providing uninterrupted, reliable and transient-free power to several industries, businesses and household consumers. With the advent of renewable power resources and EVs resulting into uncertain generation and highly dynamic load demands, it has become ever so important to ensure robust operation of power networks through suitable management of transient stability issues and localize the events of blackouts. In the light of ever increasing stress on the modern grid infrastructure and the grid operators, this paper presents a reinforcement learning( RL) framework, PowRL, to mitigate the effects of unexpected network events, as well as reliably maintain electricity everywhere on the network at all times. The PowRL leverages a novel heuristic for overload management, along with the RL-guided decision making on optimal topology selection to ensure that the grid is operated safely and reliably( with no overloads). PowRL is benchmarked on a variety of competition datasets hosted by the L2RPN( Learning to Run a Power Network). Even with its reduced action space, PowRL tops the leaderboard in the L2RPN NeurIPS 2020 challenge( Robustness track) at an aggregate level, while also being the top performing agent in the L2RPN WCCI 2020 challenge. Moreover, detailed analysis depicts state-of-the-art performances by the PowRL agent in some of the test scenarios.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26724,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26724,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Practical Algorithms for Multi-Stage Voting Rules with Parallel Universes Tiebreaking,Jun Wang;Sujoy Sikdar;Tyler Shepherd;Zhibing Zhao;Chunheng Jiang;Lirong Xia,"STV and ranked pairs( RP) are two well-studied voting rules for group decision-making. They proceed in multiple rounds, and are affected by how ties are broken in each round. However, the literature is surprisingly vague about how ties should be broken. We propose the first algorithms for computing the set of alternatives that are winners under some tiebreaking mechanism under STV and RP, which is also known as parallel-universes tiebreaking( PUT). Unfortunately, PUT-winners are NP-complete to compute under STV and RP, and standard search algorithms from AI do not apply. We propose multiple DFS-based algorithms along with pruning strategies, heuristics, sampling and machine learning to prioritize search direction to significantly improve the performance. We also propose novel ILP formulations for PUT-winners under STV and RP, respectively. Experiments on synthetic and realworld data show that our algorithms are overall faster than ILP.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4053,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012189,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Practical Federated Gradient Boosting Decision Trees,Qinbin Li;Zeyi Wen;Bingsheng He,"Gradient Boosting Decision Trees( GBDTs) have become very successful in recent years, with many awards in machine learning and data mining competitions. There have been several recent studies on how to train GBDTs in the federated learning setting. In this paper, we focus on horizontal federated learning, where data samples with the same features are distributed among multiple parties. However, existing studies are not efficient or effective enough for practical use. They suffer either from the inefficiency due to the usage of costly data transformations such as secure sharing and homomorphic encryption, or from the low model accuracy due to differential privacy designs. In this paper, we study a practical federated environment with relaxed privacy constraints. In this environment, a dishonest party might obtain some information about the other parties data, but it is still impossible for the dishonest party to derive the actual raw data of other parties. Specifically, each party boosts a number of trees by exploiting similarity information based on locality-sensitive hashing. We prove that our framework is secure without exposing the original record to other parties, while the computation overhead in the training process is kept low. Our experimental studies show that, compared with normal training with the local data of each party, our approach can significantly improve the predictive accuracy, and achieve comparable accuracy to the original GBDT with the data from all parties.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5895,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5895,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Practical Frank\'96Wolfe Method with Decision Diagrams for Computing Wardrop Equilibrium of Combinatorial Congestion Games,Kengo Nakamura;Shinsaku Sakaue;Norihito Yasuda,"Computation of equilibria for congestion games has been an important research subject. In many realistic scenarios, each strategy of congestion games is given by a combination of elements that satisfies certain constraints; such games are called combinatorial congestion games. For example, given a road network with some toll roads, each strategy of routing games is a path( a combination of edges) whose total toll satisfies a certain budget constraint. Generally, given a ground set of n elements, the set of all such strategies, called the strategy set, can be large exponentially in n, and it often has complicated structures; these issues make equilibrium computation very hard. In this paper, we propose a practical algorithm for such hard equilibrium computation problems. We use data structures, called zero-suppressed binary decision diagrams( ZDDs) , to compactly represent strategy sets, and we develop a Frank\'96Wolfe-style iterative equilibrium computation algorithm whose per-iteration complexity is linear in the size of the ZDD representation. We prove that an \uc0\u1013 -approximate Wardrop equilibrium can be computed in O( poly( n) /\u1013 ) iterations, and we improve the result to O( poly( n) log \u1013 \u8722 1) for some special cases. Experiments confirm the practical utility of our method.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5596,10.1609/aaai.v34i02.5596,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preallocation and Planning Under Stochastic Resource Constraints,Frits de Nijs;Matthijs Spaan;Mathijs de Weerdt,"Resource constraints frequently complicate multi-agent planning problems. Existing algorithms for resource-constrained, multi-agent planning problems rely on the assumption that the constraints are deterministic. However, frequently resource constraints are themselves subject to uncertainty from external influences. Uncertainty about constraints is especially challenging when agents must execute in an environment where communication is unreliable, making on-line coordination difficult. In those cases, it is a significant challenge to find coordinated allocations at plan time depending on availability at run time. To address these limitations, we propose to extend algorithms for constrained multi-agent planning problems to handle stochastic resource constraints. We show how to factorize resource limit uncertainty and use this to develop novel algorithms to plan policies for stochastic constraints. We evaluate the algorithms on a search-and-rescue problem and on a power-constrained planning domain where the resource constraints are decided by nature. We show that plans taking into account all potential realizations of the constraint obtain significantly better utility than planning for the expectation, while causing fewer constraint violations.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11592,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11592,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predicting Flashover Occurrence using Surrogate Temperature Data,Eugene Yujun Fu;Wai Cheong Tam;Jun Wang;Richard Peacock;Paul A Reneke;Grace Ngai;Hong Va Leong;Thomas Cleary,"Fire fighter fatalities and injuries in the U. S. remain too high and fire fighting too hazardous. Until now, fire fighters rely only on their experience to avoid life-threatening fire events, such as flashover. In this paper, we describe the development of a flashover prediction model which can be used to warn fire fighters before flashover occurs. Specifically, we consider the use of a fire simulation program to generate a set of synthetic data and an attention-based bidirectional long short-term memory to learn the complex relationships between temperature signals and flashover conditions. We first validate the fire simulation program with temperature measurements obtained from full-scale fire experiments. Then, we generate a set of synthetic temperature data which account for the realis-tic fire and vent opening conditions in a multi-compartment structure. Results show that our proposed method achieves promising performance for prediction of flashover even when temperature data is completely lost in the room of fire origin. It is believed that the flashover prediction model can facilitate the transformation of fire fighting tactics from traditional experience-based decision marking to data-driven decision marking and reduce fire fighter deaths and injuries.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17736,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17736,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predicting Livelihood Indicators from Community-Generated Street-Level Imagery,Jihyeon Lee;Dylan Grosz;Burak Uzkent;Sicheng Zeng;Marshall Burke;David Lobell;Stefano Ermon,"Major decisions from governments and other large organizations rely on measurements of the populaces well-being, but making such measurements at a broad scale is expensive and thus infrequent in much of the developing world. We propose an inexpensive, scalable, and interpretable approach to predict key livelihood indicators from public crowd-sourced street-level imagery. Such imagery can be cheaply collected and more frequently updated compared to traditional surveying methods, while containing plausibly relevant information for a range of livelihood indicators. We propose two approaches to learn from the street-level imagery:( 1) a method that creates multi-household cluster representations by detecting informative objects and( 2) a graph-based approach that captures the relationships between images. By visualizing what features are important to a model and how they are used, we can help end-user organizations understand the models and offer an alternate approach for index estimation that uses cheaply obtained roadway features. By comparing our results against ground data collected in nationally-representative household surveys, we demonstrate the performance of our approach in accurately predicting indicators of poverty, population, and health and its scalability by testing in two different countries, India and Kenya. Our code is available at https://github. com/sustainlab-group/mapillarygcn.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16101,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16101,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predicting Mining Industry Accidents with a Multitask Learning Approach,Rodolfo Palma;Luis Mart\'ed;Nayat S\'e1nchez-Pi,"The mining sector is a very relevant part of the Chilean economy, representing more than 14% of the country\'92s GDP and more than 50% of its exports. However, mining is also a high-risk activity where health, safety, and environmental aspects are fundamental concerns to take into account to render it viable in the longer term. The Chilean National Geology and Mining Service( SERNAGEOMIN, after its name in Spanish) is in charge of ensuring the safe operation of mines. On-site inspections are their main tool in order to detect issues, propose corrective measures, and track the compliance of those measures. Consequently, it is necessary to create inspection programs relying on a data-based decision-making strategy. This paper reports the work carried out in one of the most relevant dimensions of said strategy: predicting the mining worksites accident risk. That is, how likely it is a mining worksite to have accidents in the future. This risk is then used to create a priority ranking that is used to devise the inspection program. Estimating this risk at the government regulator level is particularly challenging as there is a very limited and biased data. Our main contribution is to apply a multi-task learning approach to train the risk prediction model in such a way that is able to overcome the constraints of the limited availability of data by fusing different sources. As part of this work, we also implemented a human-experience-based model that captures the procedures currently used by the current experts in charge of elaborating the inspection priority ranking. The mining worksites risk rankings built by model achieve a 121. 2% NDCG performance improvement over the rankings based on the currently used experts\'92 model and outperforms the non-multi-task learning alternatives.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17805,10.1609/aaai.v35i17.17805,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on Emerging Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predicting Satisfiability at the Phase Transition,Lin Xu;Holger Hoos;Kevin Leyton-Brown,"Uniform random 3-SAT at the solubility phase transition is one of the most widely studied and empirically hardest distributions of SAT instances. For 20 years, this distribution has been used extensively for evaluating and comparing algorithms. In this work, we demonstrate that simple rules can predict the solubility of these instances with surprisingly high accuracy. Specifically, we show how classification accuracies of about 70% can be obtained based on cheaply( polynomial-time) computable features on a wide range of instance sizes. We argue in two ways that classification accuracy does not decrease with instance size: first, we show that our models predictive accuracy remains roughly constant across a wide range of problem sizes; second, we show that a classifier trained on small instances is sufficient to achieve very accurate predictions across the entire range of instance sizes currently solvable by complete methods. Finally, we demonstrate that a simple decision tree based on only two features, and again trained only on the smallest instances, achieves predictive accuracies close to those of our most complex model. We conjecture that this two-feature model outperforms random guessing asymptotically; due to the models extreme simplicity, we believe that this conjecture is a worthwhile direction for future theoretical work.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8142,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8142,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Constraints, Satisfiability, and Search",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predicting Urban Dispersal Events: A Two-Stage Framework through Deep Survival Analysis on Mobility Data,Amin Vahedian;Xun Zhou;Ling Tong;W. Nick Street;Yanhua Li,"Urban dispersal events are processes where an unusually large number of people leave the same area in a short period. Early prediction of dispersal events is important in mitigating congestion and safety risks and making better dispatching decisions for taxi and ride-sharing fleets. Existing work mostly focuses on predicting taxi demand in the near future by learning patterns from historical data. However, they fail in case of abnormality because dispersal events with abnormally high demand are non-repetitive and violate common assumptions such as smoothness in demand change over time. Instead, in this paper we argue that dispersal events follow a complex pattern of trips and other related features in the past, which can be used to predict such events. Therefore, we formulate the dispersal event prediction problem as a survival analysis problem. We propose a two-stage framework( DILSA) , where a deep learning model combined with survival analysis is developed to predict the probability of a dispersal event and its demand volume. We conduct extensive case studies and experiments on the NYC Yellow taxi dataset from 20142016. Results show that DILSA can predict events in the next 5 hours with F1-score of 0:7 and with average time error of 18 minutes. It is orders of magnitude better than the state-of-the-art deep learning approaches for taxi demand prediction.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4455,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015199,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predictive Exit: Prediction of Fine-Grained Early Exits for Computationand Energy-Efficient Inference,Xiangjie Li;Chenfei Lou;Yuchi Chen;Zhengping Zhu;Yingtao Shen;Yehan Ma;An Zou,"By adding exiting layers to the deep learning networks, early exit can terminate the inference earlier with accurate results. However, the passive decision-making of whether to exit or continue the next layer has to go through every pre-placed exiting layer until it exits. In addition, it is hard to adjust the configurations of the computing platforms alongside the inference proceeds. By incorporating a low-cost prediction engine, we propose a Predictive Exit framework for computationand energy-efficient deep learning applications. Predictive Exit can forecast where the network will exit( i. e. , establish the number of remaining layers to finish the inference) , which effectively reduces the network computation cost by exiting on time without running every pre-placed exiting layer. Moreover, according to the number of remaining layers, proper computing configurations( i. e. , frequency and voltage) are selected to execute the network to further save energy. Extensive experimental results demonstrate that Predictive Exit achieves up to 96. 2% computation reduction and 72. 9% energy-saving compared with classic deep learning networks; and 12. 8% computation reduction and 37. 6% energy-saving compared with the early exit under state-of-the-art exiting strategies, given the same inference accuracy and latency.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26042,10.1609/aaai.v37i7.26042,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Predictive Mining of Comparable Entities from the Web,Myungha Jang;Jin-woo Park;Seung-won Hwang,"Comparing entities is an important part of decision making. Several approaches have been reported for mining comparable entities from Web sources to improve user experience in comparing entities online. However, these efforts extract only entities explicitly compared in the corpora, and may exclude entities that occur less-frequently but potentially comparable. To build a more complete comparison machine that can infer such missing relations, here we develop a solutionto predict transitivity of known comparable relations. Named CliqueGrow, our approach predicts missing links given a comparable entity graph obtained from versus query logs. Our approach achieved the highest F1-score among five link prediction approaches and a commercial comparison engine provided by Yahoo!.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/8112,10.1609/aaai.v26i1.8112,7,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: AI and the Web,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Predictive Off-Policy Policy Evaluation for Nonstationary Decision Problems, with Applications to Digital Marketing",Philip S. Thomas;Georgios Theocharous;Mohammad Ghavamzadeh;Ishan Durugkar;Emma Brunskill,"In this paper we consider the problem of evaluating one digital marketing policy( or more generally, a policy for an MDP with unknown transition and reward functions) using data collected from the execution of a different policy. We call this problem off-policy policy evaluation. Existing methods for off-policy policy evaluation assume that the transition and reward functions of the MDP are stationary \'97 an assumption that is typically false, particularly for digital marketing applications. This means that existing off-policy policy evaluation methods are reactive to nonstationarity, in that they slowly correct for changes after they occur. We argue that off-policy policy evaluation for nonstationary MDPs can be phrased as a time series prediction problem, which results in predictive methods that can anticipate changes before they happen. We therefore propose a synthesis of existing off-policy policy evaluation methods with existing time series prediction methods, which we show results in a drastic reduction of mean squared error when evaluating policies using real digital marketing data set.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/19104,10.1609/aaai.v31i2.19104,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Emerging Application Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,PrEF: Probabilistic Electricity Forecasting via Copula-Augmented State Space Model,Zhiyuan Wang;Xovee Xu;Goce Trajcevski;Kunpeng Zhang;Ting Zhong;Fan Zhou,"Electricity forecasting has important implications for the key decisions in modern electricity systems, ranging from power generation, transmission, distribution and so on. In the literature, traditional statistic approaches, machine-learning methods and deep learning( e. g. , recurrent neural network) based models are utilized to model the trends and patterns in electricity time-series data. However, they are restricted either by their deterministic forms or by independence in probabilistic assumptions -- thereby neglecting the uncertainty or significant correlations between distributions of electricity data. Ignoring these, in turn, may yield error accumulation, especially when relying on historical data and aiming at multi-step prediction. To overcome these, we propose a novel method named Probabilistic Electricity Forecasting( PrEF) by proposing a non-linear neural state space model( SSM) and incorporating copula-augmented mechanism into that, which can learn uncertainty-dependencies knowledge and understand interactive relationships between various factors from large-scale electricity time-series data. Our method distinguishes itself from existing models by its traceable inference procedure and its capability of providing high-quality probabilistic distribution predictions. Extensive experiments on two real-world electricity datasets demonstrate that our method consistently outperforms the alternatives.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21480,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21480,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on AI for Social Impact,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preference Elicitation as Average-Case Sorting,Dominik Peters;Ariel D. Procaccia,"Many decision making systems require users to indicate their preferences via a ranking. It is common to elicit such rankings through pairwise comparison queries. By using sorting algorithms, this can be achieved by asking at most O( m log m) adaptive comparison queries. However, in many cases we have some advance( probabilistic) information about the users preferences, for instance if we have a learnt model of the users preferences or if we expect the users preferences to be correlated with those of previous users. For these cases, we design elicitation algorithms that ask fewer questions in expectation, by building on results for average-case sorting. If the users preferences are drawn from a Mallows phi model, O( m) queries are enough; for a mixture of k Mallows models, log k + O( m) queries are enough; for Plackett-Luce models, the answer varies with the alternative weights. Our results match information-theoretic lower bounds. We also provide empirical evidence for the benefits of our approach.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16709,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16709,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preferences Single-Peaked on a Circle,Dominik Peters;Martin Lackner,"We introduce the domain of preferences that are single-peaked on a circle, which is a generalization of the well-studied single-peaked domain. This preference restriction is useful, e. g. , for scheduling decisions, and for one-dimensional decisions in the presence of extremist preferences. We give a fast recognition algorithm of this domain, provide a characterisation by finitely many forbidden subprofiles, and show that many popular singleand multi-winner voting rules are polynomial-time computable on this domain. In contrast, Kemenys rule remains hard to evaluate, and several impossibility results from social choice theory can be proved using only profiles that are single-peaked on a circle",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10615,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10615,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preferences Single-Peaked on Nice Trees,Dominik Peters;Edith Elkind,"Preference profiles that are single-peaked on trees enjoy desirable properties: they admit a Condorcet winner( Demange 1982) , and there are hard voting problems that become tractable on this domain( Yu et al. , 2013). Trick( 1989) proposed a polynomial-time algorithm that finds some tree with respect to which a given preference profile is single-peaked. However, some voting problems are only known to be easy for profiles that are single-peaked on nice trees, and Tricks algorithm provides no guarantees on the properties of the tree that it outputs. To overcome this issue, we build on the work of Trick and Yu et al. to develop a structural approach that enables us to compactly represent all trees with respect to which a given profile is single-peaked. We show how to use this representation to efficiently find the best tree for a given profile, according to a number of criteria; for other criteria, we obtain NP-hardness results. In particular, we show that it is NP-hard to decide whether an input profile is single-peaked with respect to a given tree. To demonstrate the applicability of our framework, we use it to identify a new class of profiles that admit an efficient algorithm for a popular variant of the Chamberlin-Courant rule.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10049,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10049,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preparing High School Teachers to Integrate AI Methods into STEM Classrooms,Irene Lee;Beatriz Perret,"In this experience report, we describe an Artificial Intelligence( AI) Methods in Data Science( DS) curriculum and professional development( PD) program designed to prepare high school teachers with AI content knowledge and an understanding of the ethical issues posed by bias in AI to support their integration of AI methods into existing STEM classrooms. The curriculum consists of 5-day units on Data Analytics, Decision trees, Machine Learning, Neural Networks, and Transfer learning that follow a scaffolded learning progression consisting of introductions to concepts grounded in everyday experiences, hands-on activities, interactive web-based tools, and inspecting and modifying the code used to build, train and test AI models within Google Colab notebooks. The participants in the PD program were secondary school teachers from the Southwest and North-east regions of the United States who represented a variety of STEM disciplines: Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Engi-neering, and Mathematics. We share findings on teacher outcomes from the implementation of two one-week PD workshops during the summer of 2021 and share suggestions for improvements provided by teachers. We conclude with a discussion of affordances and challenges encountered in preparing teachers to integrate AI education into disciplinary classrooms.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21557,10.1609/aaai.v36i11.21557,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Full Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preserve Context Information for Extract-Generate Long-Input Summarization Framework,Ruifeng Yuan;Zili Wang;Ziqiang Cao;Wenjie Li,"The Extract-generate framework has been a classic approach for text summarization. As pretrained language models struggling with long-input summarization for their high memory cost, extract-generate framework regains researchers interests. However, the cost of its effectiveness in dealing with long-input summarization is the loss of context information. In this paper, we present a context-aware extract-generate framework( CAEG) for long-input text summarization. It focuses on preserving both local and global context information in an extract-generate framework with little cost, and can be applied to most of existing extract-generate summarization models. CAEG generates a set of context-related text spans called context prompts for each text snippet and use them to transfer the context information from the extractor and generator. To find such context prompts, we propose to capture the context information based on the interpretation of the extractor, where the text spans having the highest contribution to the extraction decision are considered as containing the richest context information. We evaluate our approach on both long-document and long-dialogue summarization datasets: arXiv and QMSum. The experiment results show that CAEG achieves the-state-of-art result on QMSum and outperforms other extract-generate based models in arXiv.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26631,10.1609/aaai.v37i11.26631,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech & Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Preventing Eviction-Caused Homelessness through ML-Informed Distribution of Rental Assistance,Catalina Vajiac;Arun Frey;Joachim Baumann;Abigail Smith;Kasun Amarasinghe;Alice Lai;Kit T. Rodolfa;Rayid Ghani,"Rental assistance programs provide individuals with financial assistance to prevent housing instabilities caused by evictions and avert homelessness. Since these programs operate under resource constraints, they must decide who to prioritize. Typically, funding is distributed by a reactive allocation process that does not systematically consider risk of future homelessness. We partnered with Anonymous County( PA) to explore a proactive and preventative allocation approach that prioritizes individuals facing eviction based on their risk of future homelessness. Our ML models, trained on state and county administrative data accurately identify at-risk individuals, outperforming simpler prioritization approaches by at least 20% while meeting our equity and fairness goals across race and gender. Furthermore, our approach would reach 28% of individuals who are overlooked by the current process and end up homeless. Beyond improvements to the rental assistance program in Anonymous County, this study can inform the development of evidence-based decision support tools in similar contexts, including lessons about data needs, model design, evaluation, and field validation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30246,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30246,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Primarily about Primaries,Allan Borodin;Omer Lev;Nisarg Shah;Tyrone Strangway,"Much of the social choice literature examines direct voting systems, in which voters submit their ranked preferences over candidates and a voting rule picks a winner. Real-world elections and decision-making processes are often more complex and involve multiple stages. For instance, one popular voting system filters candidates through primaries: first, voters affiliated with each political party vote over candidates of their own party and the voting rule picks a candidate from each party, which then compete in a general election. We present a model to analyze such multi-stage elections, and conduct the first quantitative comparison( to the best of our knowledge) of the direct and primary voting systems with two political parties in terms of the quality of the elected candidate. Our main result is that every voting rule is guaranteed to perform almost as well( i. e. , within a constant factor) under the primary system as under the direct system. Surprisingly, the converse does not hold: we show settings in which there exist voting rules that perform significantly better under the primary system than under the direct system.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4004,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33011804,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Principal-Agent Reward Shaping in MDPs,Omer Ben-Porat;Yishay Mansour;Michal Moshkovitz;Boaz Taitler,"Principal-agent problems arise when one party acts on behalf of another, leading to conflicts of interest. The economic literature has extensively studied principal-agent problems, and recent work has extended this to more complex scenarios such as Markov Decision Processes( MDPs). In this paper, we further explore this line of research by investigating how reward shaping under budget constraints can improve the principals utility. We study a two-player Stackelberg game where the principal and the agent have different reward functions, and the agent chooses an MDP policy for both players. The principal offers an additional reward to the agent, and the agent picks their policy selfishly to maximize their reward, which is the sum of the original and the offered reward. Our results establish the NP-hardness of the problem and offer polynomial approximation algorithms for two classes of instances: Stochastic trees and deterministic decision processes with a finite horizon.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28805,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28805,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Principled Data-Driven Decision Support for Cyber-Forensic Investigations,Soodeh Atefi;Sakshyam Panda;Emmanouil Panaousis;Aron Laszka,"In the wake of a cybersecurity incident, it is crucial to promptly discover how the threat actors breached security in order to assess the impact of the incident and to develop and deploy countermeasures that can protect against further attacks. To this end, defenders can launch a cyber-forensic investigation, which discovers the techniques that the threat actors used in the incident. A fundamental challenge in such an investigation is prioritizing the investigation of particular techniques since the investigation of each technique requires time and effort, but forensic analysts cannot know which ones were actually used before investigating them. To ensure prompt discovery, it is imperative to provide decision support that can help forensic analysts with this prioritization. A recent study demonstrated that data-driven decision support, based on a dataset of prior incidents, can provide state-of-the-art prioritization. However, this data-driven approach, called DISCLOSE, is based on a heuristic that utilizes only a subset of the available information and does not approximate optimal decisions. To improve upon this heuristic, we introduce a principled approach for data-driven decision support for cyber-forensic investigations. We formulate the decision-support problem using a Markov decision process, whose states represent the states of a forensic investigation. To solve the decision problem, we propose a Monte Carlo tree search based method, which relies on a k-NN regression over prior incidents to estimate state-transition probabilities. We evaluate our proposed approach on multiple versions of the MITRE ATT&CK dataset, which is a knowledge base of adversarial techniques and tactics based on real-world cyber incidents, and demonstrate that our approach outperforms DISCLOSE in terms of techniques discovered per effort spent.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25628,10.1609/aaai.v37i4.25628,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Domain( s) of Application,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Privacy-Preserving Gradient Boosting Decision Trees,Qinbin Li;Zhaomin Wu;Zeyi Wen;Bingsheng He,"The Gradient Boosting Decision Tree( GBDT) is a popular machine learning model for various tasks in recent years. In this paper, we study how to improve model accuracy of GBDT while preserving the strong guarantee of differential privacy. Sensitivity and privacy budget are two key design aspects for the effectiveness of differential private models. Existing solutions for GBDT with differential privacy suffer from the significant accuracy loss due to too loose sensitivity bounds and ineffective privacy budget allocations( especially across different trees in the GBDT model). Loose sensitivity bounds lead to more noise to obtain a fixed privacy level. Ineffective privacy budget allocations worsen the accuracy loss especially when the number of trees is large. Therefore, we propose a new GBDT training algorithm that achieves tighter sensitivity bounds and more effective noise allocations. Specifically, by investigating the property of gradient and the contribution of each tree in GBDTs, we propose to adaptively control the gradients of training data for each iteration and leaf node clipping in order to tighten the sensitivity bounds. Furthermore, we design a novel boosting framework to allocate the privacy budget between trees so that the accuracy loss can be further reduced. Our experiments show that our approach can achieve much better model accuracy than other baselines.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5422,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5422,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Privacy-Preserving Policy Iteration for Decentralized POMDPs,Feng Wu;Shlomo Zilberstein;Xiaoping Chen,"We propose the first privacy-preserving approach to address the privacy issues that arise in multi-agent planning problems modeled as a Dec-POMDP. Our solution is a distributed message-passing algorithm based on trials, where the agents policies are optimized using the cross-entropy method. In our algorithm, the agents private information is protected using a public-key homomorphic cryptosystem. We prove the correctness of our algorithm and analyze its complexity in terms of message passing and encryption/decryption operations. Furthermore, we analyze several privacy aspects of our algorithm and show that it can preserve the agent privacy of non-neighbors, model privacy, and decision privacy. Our experimental results on several common Dec-POMDP benchmark problems confirm the effectiveness of our approach.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11584,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.11584,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Probabilistic Logic Programming with Beta-Distributed Random Variables,Federico Cerutti;Lance Kaplan;Angelika Kimmig;Murat \uc0\u350 ensoy,"We enable aProbLog\'97a probabilistic logical programming approach\'97to reason in presence of uncertain probabilities represented as Beta-distributed random variables. We achieve the same performance of state-of-the-art algorithms for highly specified and engineered domains, while simultaneously we maintain the flexibility offered by aProbLog in handling complex relational domains. Our motivation is that faithfully capturing the distribution of probabilities is necessary to compute an expected utility for effective decision making under uncertainty: unfortunately, these probability distributions can be highly uncertain due to sparse data. To understand and accurately manipulate such probability distributions we need a well-defined theoretical framework that is provided by the Beta distribution, which specifies a distribution of probabilities representing all the possible values of a probability when the exact value is unknown.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4773,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017769,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Probabilities Are Not Enough: Formal Controller Synthesis for Stochastic Dynamical Models with Epistemic Uncertainty,Thom Badings;Licio Romao;Alessandro Abate;Nils Jansen,"Capturing uncertainty in models of complex dynamical systems is crucial to designing safe controllers. Stochastic noise causes aleatoric uncertainty, whereas imprecise knowledge of model parameters leads to epistemic uncertainty. Several approaches use formal abstractions to synthesize policies that satisfy temporal specifications related to safety and reachability. However, the underlying models exclusively capture aleatoric but not epistemic uncertainty, and thus require that model parameters are known precisely. Our contribution to overcoming this restriction is a novel abstraction-based controller synthesis method for continuous-state models with stochastic noise and uncertain parameters. By sampling techniques and robust analysis, we capture both aleatoric and epistemic uncertainty, with a user-specified confidence level, in the transition probability intervals of a so-called interval Markov decision process( iMDP). We synthesize an optimal policy on this iMDP, which translates( with the specified confidence level) to a feedback controller for the continuous model with the same performance guarantees. Our experimental benchmarks confirm that accounting for epistemic uncertainty leads to controllers that are more robust against variations in parameter values.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26718,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26718,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Probabilities of Causation with Nonbinary Treatment and Effect,Ang Li;Judea Pearl,"Probabilities of causation are proven to be critical in modern decision-making. This paper deals with the problem of estimating the probabilities of causation when treatment and effect are not binary. Pearl defined the binary probabilities of causation, such as the probability of necessity and sufficiency( PNS) , the probability of sufficiency( PS) , and the probability of necessity( PN). Tian and Pearl then derived sharp bounds for these probabilities of causation using experimental and observational data. In this paper, we define and provide theoretical bounds for all types of probabilities of causation with multivalued treatments and effects. We further discuss examples where our bounds guide practical decisions and use simulation studies to evaluate how informative the bounds are for various data combinations.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30030,10.1609/aaai.v38i18.30030,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Profiles, Proxies, and Assumptions: Decentralized, Communications-Resilient Planning, Allocation, and Scheduling",Ugur Kuter;Brian Kettler;Katherine Guo;Martin Hofmann;Valerie Champagne;Kurt Lachevet;Jennifer Lautenschlager;Robert P. Goldman;Luis Asencios;Josh Hamell,"Degraded communications are expected in large-scale disaster response and military operations, which nevertheless require rapid, concerted actions by distributed decision makers, each with limited visibility into the changing situation and in charge of a limited set of resources. We describe LAPLATA, a novel architecture that addresses these challenges by separating mission planning from allocation/scheduling for scalability but at the cost of some negotiation. We describe formal algorithms that achieve near-optimal performance according to mission completion percentage and subject matter expert review: assumption-based planning and replanning, profileassisted cooperative allocation, and schedule negotiation. We validate our approach on a realistic problem specification and compare results against subject matter expert solutions.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5006,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33019504,6,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track: Emerging Papers,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Programmatic Strategies for Real-Time Strategy Games,Julian R. H. Mari\'f1o;Rubens O. Moraes;Tassiana C. Oliveira;Claudio Toledo;Levi H. S. Lelis,"Search-based systems have shown to be effective for planning in zero-sum games. However, search-based approaches have important disadvantages. First, the decisions of search algorithms are mostly non-interpretable, which is problematic in domains where predictability and trust are desired such as commercial games. Second, the computational complexity of search-based algorithms might limit their applicability, especially in contexts where resources are shared among other tasks such as graphic rendering. In this work we introduce a system for synthesizing programmatic strategies for a real-time strategy( RTS) game. In contrast with search algorithms, programmatic strategies are more amenable to explanations and tend to be efficient, once the program is synthesized. Our system uses a novel algorithm for simplifying domain-specific languages( DSLs) and a local search algorithm that synthesizes programs with self play. We performed a user study where we enlisted four professional programmers to develop programmatic strategies for mRTS, a minimalist RTS game. Our results show that the programs synthesized by our approach can outperform search algorithms and be competitive with programs written by the programmers.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16114,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16114,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Application Domains,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Progressive Painterly Image Harmonization from Low-Level Styles to High-Level Styles,Li Niu;Yan Hong;Junyan Cao;Liqing Zhang,"Painterly image harmonization aims to harmonize a photographic foreground object on the painterly background. Different from previous auto-encoder based harmonization networks, we develop a progressive multi-stage harmonization network, which harmonizes the composite foreground from low-level styles( e. g. , color, simple texture) to high-level styles( e. g. , complex texture). Our network has better interpretability and harmonization performance. Moreover, we design an early-exit strategy to automatically decide the proper stage to exit, which can skip the unnecessary and even harmful late stages. Extensive experiments on the benchmark dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our progressive harmonization network.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28232,10.1609/aaai.v38i5.28232,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Projection-Free Bandit Optimization with Privacy Guarantees,Alina Ene;Huy L. Nguyen;Adrian Vladu,"We design differentially private algorithms for the bandit convex optimization problem in the projection-free setting. This setting is important whenever the decision set has a complex geometry, and access to it is done efficiently only through a linear optimization oracle, hence Euclidean projections are unavailable( e. g. matroid polytope, submodular base polytope). This is the first differentially-private algorithm for projection-free bandit optimization, and in fact our bound matches the best known non-private projection-free algorithm and the best known private algorithm, even for the weaker setting when projections are available.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16899,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16899,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Projection-free Online Learning over Strongly Convex Sets,Yuanyu Wan;Lijun Zhang,"To efficiently solve online problems with complicated constraints, projection-free algorithms including online frank-wolfe( OFW) and its variants have received significant interest recently. However, in the general case, existing efficient projection-free algorithms only achieved the regret bound of O( T^\{3/4\}) , which is worse than the regret of projection-based algorithms, where T is the number of decision rounds. In this paper, we study the special case of online learning over strongly convex sets, for which we first prove that OFW can enjoy a better regret bound of O( T^\{2/3\}) for general convex losses. The key idea is to refine the decaying step-size in the original OFW by a simple line search rule. Furthermore, for strongly convex losses, we propose a strongly convex variant of OFW by redefining the surrogate loss function in OFW. We show that it achieves a regret bound of O( T^\{2/3\}) over general convex sets and a better regret bound of O( T^\{1/2\}) over strongly convex sets.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17209,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17209,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Promoting Counterfactual Robustness through Diversity,Francesco Leofante;Nico Potyka,"Counterfactual explanations shed light on the decisions of black-box models by explaining how an input can be altered to obtain a favourable decision from the model( e. g. , when a loan application has been rejected). However, as noted recently, counterfactual explainers may lack robustness in the sense that a minor change in the input can cause a major change in the explanation. This can cause confusion on the user side and open the door for adversarial attacks. In this paper, we study some sources of non-robustness. While there are fundamental reasons for why an explainer that returns a single counterfactual cannot be robust in all instances, we show that some interesting robustness guarantees can be given by reporting multiple rather than a single counterfactual. Unfortunately, the number of counterfactuals that need to be reported for the theoretical guarantees to hold can be prohibitively large. We therefore propose an approximation algorithm that uses a diversity criterion to select a feasible number of most relevant explanations and study its robustness empirically. Our experiments indicate that our method improves the state-of-the-art in generating robust explanations, while maintaining other desirable properties and providing competitive computational performance.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30127,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30127,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Proportional Aggregation of Preferences for Sequential Decision Making,Nikhil Chandak;Shashwat Goel;Dominik Peters,"We study the problem of fair sequential decision making given voter preferences. In each round, a decision rule must choose a decision from a set of alternatives where each voter reports which of these alternatives they approve. Instead of going with the most popular choice in each round, we aim for proportional representation, using axioms inspired by the multi-winner voting literature. The axioms require that every group of \uc0\u945 % of the voters, if it agrees in every round( i. e. , approves a common alternative) , then those voters must approve at least \u945 % of the decisions. A stronger version of the axioms requires that every group of \u945 % of the voters that agrees in a \u946  fraction of rounds must approve \u946 \u8901 \u945 % of the decisions. We show that three attractive voting rules satisfy axioms of this style. One of them( Sequential Phragm\'e9n) makes its decisions online, and the other two satisfy strengthened versions of the axioms but make decisions semi-online( Method of Equal Shares) or fully offline( Proportional Approval Voting). We present empirical results for these rules based on synthetic data and U. S. political elections. We also run experiments using the moral machine dataset about ethical dilemmas. We train preference models on user responses from different countries and let the models cast votes. We find that aggregating these votes using our rules leads to a more equal utility distribution across demographics than making decisions using a single global preference model.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28813,10.1609/aaai.v38i9.28813,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Proportional Decisions in Perpetual Voting,Martin Lackner;Jan Maly,"Perpetual voting is a framework for long-term collective decision making. In this framework, we consider a sequence of subsequent approval-based elections and try to achieve a fair overall outcome. To achieve fairness over time, perpetual voting rules take the history of previous decisions into account and identify voters that were dissatisfied with previous decisions. In this paper, we look at perpetual voting rules from an axiomatic perspective. First, we define two classes of perpetual voting rules that are particularly easy to explain to voters and explore the bounds imposed by this simplicity. Second, we study proportionality in the perpetual setting and identify two rules with strong proportionality guarantees. However, both rules yield different guarantees and we prove them to be incompatible with each other.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25710,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25710,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Proportional Public Decisions,Piotr Skowron;Adrian G\'f3recki,"We consider a setting where a group of individuals needs to make a number of independent decisions. The decisions should proportionally represent the views of the voters. We formulate new criteria of proportionality and analyse two rules, Proportional Approval Voting and the Method of Equal Shares, that are inspired by the corresponding approval-based committee election rules. We prove that the two rules provide very strong proportionality guarantees when applied to the setting of public decisions.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20454,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20454,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Proportionality in Approval-Based Participatory Budgeting,Markus Brill;Stefan Forster;Martin Lackner;Jan Maly;Jannik Peters,"The ability to measure the satisfaction of( groups of) voters is a crucial prerequisite for formulating proportionality axioms in approval-based participatory budgeting elections. Two common -- but very different -- ways to measure the satisfaction of a voter consider( i) the number of approved projects and( ii) the total cost of approved projects, respectively. In general, it is difficult to decide which measure of satisfaction best reflects the voters true utilities. In this paper, we study proportionality axioms with respect to large classes of approval-based satisfaction functions. We establish logical implications among our axioms and related notions from the literature, and we ask whether outcomes can be achieved that are proportional with respect to more than one satisfaction function. We show that this is impossible for the two commonly used satisfaction functions when considering proportionality notions based on extended justified representation, but achievable for a notion based on proportional justified representation. For the latter result, we introduce a strengthening of priceability and show that it is satisfied by several polynomial-time computable rules, including the Method of Equal Shares and Phragm\'e9ns sequential rule.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25686,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25686,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Proportionally Representative Participatory Budgeting with Ordinal Preferences,Haris Aziz;Barton E. Lee,"Participatory budgeting( PB) is a democratic paradigm whereby voters decide on a set of projects to fund with a limited budget. We consider PB in a setting where voters report ordinal preferences over projects and have( possibly) asymmetric weights. We propose proportional representation axioms and clarify how they fit into other preference aggregation settings, such as multi-winner voting and approval-based multi-winner voting. As a result of our study, we also discover a new solution concept for approval-based multi-winner voting, which we call Inclusion PSC( IPSC). IPSC is stronger than proportional justified representation( PJR) , incomparable to extended justified representation( EJR) , and yet compatible with EJR. The well-studied Proportional Approval Voting( PAV) rule produces a committee that satisfies both EJR and IPSC; however, both these axioms can also be satisfied by an algorithm that runs in polynomial-time.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16646,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16646,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Provably Convergent Federated Trilevel Learning,Yang Jiao;Kai Yang;Tiancheng Wu;Chengtao Jian;Jianwei Huang,"Trilevel learning, also called trilevel optimization( TLO) , has been recognized as a powerful modelling tool for hierarchical decision process and widely applied in many machine learning applications, such as robust neural architecture search, hyperparameter optimization, and domain adaptation. Tackling TLO problems has presented a great challenge due to their nested decision-making structure. In addition, existing works on TLO face the following key challenges: 1) they all focus on the non-distributed setting, which may lead to privacy breach; 2) they do not offer any non-asymptotic convergence analysis which characterizes how fast an algorithm converges. To address the aforementioned challenges, this paper proposes an asynchronous federated trilevel optimization method to solve TLO problems. The proposed method utilizes u-cuts to construct a hyper-polyhedral approximation for the TLO problem and solve it in an asynchronous manner. We demonstrate that the proposed u-cuts are applicable to not only convex functions but also a wide range of non-convex functions that meet the u-weakly convex assumption. Furthermore, we theoretically analyze the non-asymptotic convergence rate for the proposed method by showing its iteration complexity to obtain \uc0\u1013 -stationary point is upper bounded by O( 1/\u1013 \'b2). Extensive experiments on real-world datasets have been conducted to elucidate the superiority of the proposed method, e. g. , it has a faster convergence rate with a maximum acceleration of approximately 80%.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29190,10.1609/aaai.v38i11.29190,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Provably Efficient Causal Model-Based Reinforcement Learning for Systematic Generalization,Mirco Mutti;Riccardo De Santi;Emanuele Rossi;Juan Felipe Calderon;Michael Bronstein;Marcello Restelli,"In the sequential decision making setting, an agent aims to achieve systematic generalization over a large, possibly infinite, set of environments. Such environments are modeled as discrete Markov decision processes with both states and actions represented through a feature vector. The underlying structure of the environments allows the transition dynamics to be factored into two components: one that is environment-specific and another that is shared. Consider a set of environments that share the laws of motion as an example. In this setting, the agent can take a finite amount of reward-free interactions from a subset of these environments. The agent then must be able to approximately solve any planning task defined over any environment in the original set, relying on the above interactions only. Can we design a provably efficient algorithm that achieves this ambitious goal of systematic generalization? In this paper, we give a partially positive answer to this question. First, we provide a tractable formulation of systematic generalization by employing a causal viewpoint. Then, under specific structural assumptions, we provide a simple learning algorithm that guarantees any desired planning error up to an unavoidable sub-optimality term, while showcasing a polynomial sample complexity.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26109,10.1609/aaai.v37i8.26109,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Provably Efficient Primal-Dual Reinforcement Learning for CMDPs with Non-stationary Objectives and Constraints,Yuhao Ding;Javad Lavaei,"We consider primal-dual-based reinforcement learning( RL) in episodic constrained Markov decision processes( CMDPs) with non-stationary objectives and constraints, which plays a central role in ensuring the safety of RL in time-varying environments. In this problem, the reward/utility functions and the state transition functions are both allowed to vary arbitrarily over time as long as their cumulative variations do not exceed certain known variation budgets. Designing safe RL algorithms in time-varying environments is particularly challenging because of the need to integrate the constraint violation reduction, safe exploration, and adaptation to the non-stationarity. To this end, we identify two alternative conditions on the time-varying constraints under which we can guarantee the safety in the long run. We also propose the Periodically Restarted Optimistic Primal-Dual Proximal Policy Optimization( PROPD-PPO) algorithm that can coordinate with both two conditions. Furthermore, a dynamic regret bound and a constraint violation bound are established for the proposed algorithm in both the linear kernel CMDP function approximation setting and the tabular CMDP setting under two alternative conditions. This paper provides the first provably efficient algorithm for non-stationary CMDPs with safe exploration.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25900,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25900,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Providing Fair Recourse over Plausible Groups,Jayanth Yetukuri;Ian Hardy;Yevgeniy Vorobeychik;Berk Ustun;Yang Liu,"Machine learning models now automate decisions in applications where we may wish to provide recourse to adversely affected individuals. In practice, existing methods to provide recourse return actions that fail to account for latent characteristics that are not captured in the model( e. g. , age, sex, marital status). In this paper, we study how the cost and feasibility of recourse can change across these latent groups. We introduce a notion of group-level plausibility to identify groups of individuals with a shared set of latent characteristics. We develop a general-purpose clustering procedure to identify groups from samples. Further, we propose a constrained optimization approach to learn models that equalize the cost of recourse over latent groups. We evaluate our approach through an empirical study on simulated and real-world datasets, showing that it can produce models that have better performance in terms of overall costs and feasibility at a group level.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30175,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30175,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Proxy Synthesis: Learning with Synthetic Classes for Deep Metric Learning,Geonmo Gu;Byungsoo Ko;Han-Gyu Kim,"One of the main purposes of deep metric learning is to construct an embedding space that has well-generalized embeddings on both seen( training) classes and unseen( test) classes. Most existing works have tried to achieve this using different types of metric objectives and hard sample mining strategies with given training data. However, learning with only the training data can be overfitted to the seen classes, leading to the lack of generalization capability on unseen classes. To address this problem, we propose a simple regularizer called Proxy Synthesis that exploits synthetic classes for stronger generalization in deep metric learning. The proposed method generates synthetic embeddings and proxies that work as synthetic classes, and they mimic unseen classes when computing proxy-based losses. Proxy Synthesis derives an embedding space considering class relations and smooth decision boundaries for robustness on unseen classes. Our method is applicable to any proxy-based losses, including softmax and its variants. Extensive experiments on four famous benchmarks in image retrieval tasks demonstrate that Proxy Synthesis significantly boosts the performance of proxy-based losses and achieves state-of-the-art performance. Our implementation is available at github. com/navervision/proxy-synthesis.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16236,10.1609/aaai.v35i2.16236,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Q-Ball: Modeling Basketball Games Using Deep Reinforcement Learning,Chen Yanai;Adir Solomon;Gilad Katz;Bracha Shapira;Lior Rokach,"Basketball is one of the most popular types of sports in the world. Recent technological developments have made it possible to collect large amounts of data on the game, analyze it, and discover new insights. We propose a novel approach for modeling basketball games using deep reinforcement learning. By analyzing multiple aspects of both the players and the game, we are able to model the latent connections among players movements, actions, and performance, into a single measure - the Q-Ball. Using Q-Ball, we are able to assign scores to the performance of both players and whole teams. Our approach has multiple practical applications, including evaluating and improving players game decisions and producing tactical recommendations. We train and evaluate our approach on a large dataset of National Basketball Association games, and show that the Q-Ball is capable of accurately assessing the performance of players and teams. Furthermore, we show that Q-Ball is highly effective in recommending alternatives to players actions.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20861,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20861,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Q-SENN: Quantized Self-Explaining Neural Networks,Thomas Norrenbrock;Marco Rudolph;Bodo Rosenhahn,"Explanations in Computer Vision are often desired, but most Deep Neural Networks can only provide saliency maps with questionable faithfulness. Self-Explaining Neural Networks( SENN) extract interpretable concepts with fidelity, diversity, and grounding to combine them linearly for decision-making. While they can explain what was recognized, initial realizations lack accuracy and general applicability. We propose the Quantized-Self-Explaining Neural Network \'93Q-SENN\'94. Q-SENN satisfies or exceeds the desiderata of SENN while being applicable to more complex datasets and maintaining most or all of the accuracy of an uninterpretable baseline model, outperforming previous work in all considered metrics. Q-SENN describes the relationship between every class and feature as either positive, negative or neutral instead of an arbitrary number of possible relations, enforcing more binary human-friendly features. Since every class is assigned just 5 interpretable features on average, Q-SENN shows convincing local and global interpretability. Additionally, we propose a feature alignment method, capable of aligning learned features with human language-based concepts without additional supervision. Thus, what is learned can be more easily verbalized. The code is published: https://github. com/ThomasNorr/Q-SENN",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30145,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30145,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Quantification of Resource Production Incompleteness,Yakoub Salhi,"In a situation where an agent has to produce specific resources using the available ones, it may not be possible to achieve the complete goal, but only obtaining some of its parts. This incompleteness problem calls for reasoning models to make rational decisions. In this paper, we introduce a logic-based framework for measuring resource production incompleteness: the greater the value returned by a measure, the greater is the intensity of incompleteness. After motivating our work by describing situations where the incompleteness measures can be applied, we introduce our framework by using a postulate-based approach. To some extent, the incompleteness measures can be seen as a counterpart of inconsistency measures in resource logics. Here, intuitionistic affine logic is used for representing and reasoning about resource consummation and production. Besides, we propose different notions that are useful for defining different types of incompleteness measures. We also present several measures to illustrate the introduced concepts and notions.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16803,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16803,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Quantile-Regression-Ensemble: A Deep Learning Algorithm for Downscaling Extreme Precipitation,Thomas Bailie;Yun Sing Koh;Neelesh Rampal;Peter B. Gibson,"Global Climate Models( GCMs) simulate low resolution climate projections on a global scale. The native resolution of GCMs is generally too low for societal-level decision-making. To enhance the spatial resolution, downscaling is often applied to GCM output. Statistical downscaling techniques, in particular, are well-established as a cost-effective approach. They require significantly less computational time than physics-based dynamical downscaling. In recent years, deep learning has gained prominence in statistical downscaling, demonstrating significantly lower error rates compared to traditional statistical methods. However, a drawback of regression-based deep learning techniques is their tendency to overfit to the mean sample intensity. Extreme values as a result are often underestimated. Problematically, extreme events have the largest societal impact. We propose Quantile-Regression-Ensemble( QRE) , an innovative deep learning algorithm inspired by boosting methods. Its primary objective is to avoid trade-offs between fitting to sample means and extreme values by training independent models on a partitioned dataset. Our QRE is robust to redundant models and not susceptible to explosive ensemble weights, ensuring a reliable training process. QRE achieves lower Mean Squared Error( MSE) compared to various baseline models. In particular, our algorithm has a lower error for high-intensity precipitation events over New Zealand, highlighting the ability to represent extreme events accurately.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30193,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30193,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Quantum Cognitively Motivated Decision Fusion for Video Sentiment Analysis,Dimitris Gkoumas;Qiuchi Li;Shahram Dehdashti;Massimo Melucci;Yijun Yu;Dawei Song,"Video sentiment analysis as a decision-making process is inherently complex, involving the fusion of decisions from multiple modalities and the so-caused cognitive biases. Inspired by recent advances in quantum cognition, we show that the sentiment judgment from one modality could be incompatible with the judgment from another, i. e. , the order matters and they cannot be jointly measured to produce a final decision. Thus the cognitive process exhibits ``quantum-like biases that cannot be captured by classical probability theories. Accordingly, we propose a fundamentally new, quantum cognitively motivated fusion strategy for predicting sentiment judgments. In particular, we formulate utterances as quantum superposition states of positive and negative sentiment judgments, and uni-modal classifiers as mutually incompatible observables, on a complex-valued Hilbert space with positive-operator valued measures. Experiments on two benchmarking datasets illustrate that our model significantly outperforms various existing decision level and a range of state-of-the-art content-level fusion approaches. The results also show that the concept of incompatibility allows effective handling of all combination patterns, including those extreme cases that are wrongly predicted by all uni-modal classifiers.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16165,10.1609/aaai.v35i1.16165,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Cognitive Modeling and Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Querying Partially Labelled Data to Improve a K-nn Classifier,Vu-Linh Nguyen;S\'e9bastien Destercke;Marie-Helene Masson,"When learning from instances whose output labels may be partial, the problem of knowing which of these output labels should be made precise to improve the accuracy of predictions arises. This problem can be seen as the intersection of two tasks: the one of learning from partial labels and the one of active learning, where the goal is to provide the labels of additional instances to improve the model accuracy. In this paper, we propose querying strategies of partial labels for the well-known K-nn classifier. We propose different criteria of increasing complexity, using among other things the amount of ambiguity that partial labels introduce in the K-nn decision rule. We then show that our strategies usually outperform simple baseline schemes, and that more complex strategies provide a faster improvement of the model accuracies.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10808,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10808,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Querying to Find a Safe Policy under Uncertain Safety Constraints in Markov Decision Processes,Shun Zhang;Edmund Durfee;Satinder Singh,"An autonomous agent acting on behalf of a human user has the potential of causing side-effects that surprise the user in unsafe ways. When the agent cannot formulate a policy with only side-effects it knows are safe, it needs to selectively query the user about whether other useful side-effects are safe. Our goal is an algorithm that queries about as few potential side-effects as possible to find a safe policy, or to prove that none exists. We extend prior work on irreducible infeasible sets to also handle our problems complication that a constraint to avoid a side-effect cannot be relaxed without user permission. By proving that our objectives are also adaptive submodular, we devise a querying algorithm that we empirically show finds nearly-optimal queries with much less computation than a guaranteed-optimal approach, and outperforms competing approximate approaches.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5638,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5638,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Human-AI Collaboration,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Question-Driven Span Labeling Model for Aspect\'96Opinion Pair Extraction,Lei Gao;Yulong Wang;Tongcun Liu;Jingyu Wang;Lei Zhang;Jianxin Liao,"Aspect term extraction and opinion word extraction are two fundamental subtasks of aspect-based sentiment analysis. The internal relationship between aspect terms and opinion words is typically ignored, and information for the decision-making of buyers and sellers is insufficient. In this paper, we explore an aspect\'96opinion pair extraction( AOPE) task and propose a Question-Driven Span Labeling( QDSL) model to extract all the aspect\'96opinion pairs from user-generated reviews. Specifically, we divide the AOPE task into aspect term extraction( ATE) and aspect-specified opinion extraction( ASOE) subtasks; we first extract all the candidate aspect terms and then the corresponding opinion words given the aspect term. Unlike existing approaches that use the BIO-based tagging scheme for extraction, the QDSL model adopts a span-based tagging scheme and builds a question\'96answer-based machine-reading comprehension task for an effective aspect\'96opinion pair extraction. Extensive experiments conducted on three tasks( ATE, ASOE, and AOPE) on four benchmark datasets demonstrate that the proposed method significantly outperforms state-of-the-art approaches.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17523,10.1609/aaai.v35i14.17523,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,QUOTA: The Quantile Option Architecture for Reinforcement Learning,Shangtong Zhang;Hengshuai Yao,"In this paper, we propose the Quantile Option Architecture( QUOTA) for exploration based on recent advances in distributional reinforcement learning( RL). In QUOTA, decision making is based on quantiles of a value distribution, not only the mean. QUOTA provides a new dimension for exploration via making use of both optimism and pessimism of a value distribution. We demonstrate the performance advantage of QUOTA in both challenging video games and physical robot simulators.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4527,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33015797,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Random Composite Forests,Giulia DeSalvo;Mehryar Mohri,"We introduce a broad family of decision trees, Composite Trees, whose leaf classifiers are selected out of a hypothesis set composed of p subfamilies with different complexities. We prove new data-dependent learning guarantees for this family in the multi-class setting. These learning bounds provide a quantitative guidance for the choice of the hypotheses at each leaf. Remarkably, they depend on the Rademacher complexities of the sub-families of the predictors and the fraction of sample points correctly classified at each leaf. We further introduce random composite trees and derive learning guarantees for random composite trees which also apply to Random Forests. Using our theoretical analysis, we devise a new algorithm, RANDOMCOMPOSITEFORESTS( RCF) , that is based on forming an ensemble of random composite trees. We report the results of experiments demonstrating that RCF yields significant performance improvements over both Random Forests and a variant of RCF in several tasks.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10203,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10203,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Random vs. Best-First: Impact of Sampling Strategies on Decision Making in Model-Based Diagnosis,Patrick Rodler,"Statistical samples, in order to be representative, have to be drawn from a population in a random and unbiased way. Nevertheless, it is common practice in the \uc0\u64257 eld of model-based diagnosis to make estimations from( biased) best-\u64257 rst samples. One example is the computation of a few most probable fault explanations for a defective system and the use of these to assess which aspect of the system, if measured, would bring the highest information gain. In this work, we scrutinize whether these statistically not well-founded conventions, that both diagnosis researchers and practitioners have adhered to for decades, are indeed reasonable. To this end, we empirically analyze various sampling methods that generate fault explanations. We study the representativeness of the produced samples in terms of their estimations about fault explanations and how well they guide diagnostic decisions, and we investigate the impact of sample size, the optimal trade-off between sampling ef\u64257 ciency and effectivity, and how approximate sampling techniques compare to exact ones.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20531,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20531,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Randomised Procedures for Initialising and Switching Actions in Policy Iteration,Shivaram Kalyanakrishnan;Neeldhara Misra;Aditya Gopalan,"Policy Iteration( PI) ( Howard 1960) is a classical method for computing an optimal policy for a finite Markov Decision Problem( MDP). The method is conceptually simple: starting from some initial policy, \'93policy improvement\'94 is repeatedly performed to obtain progressively dominating policies, until eventually, an optimal policy is reached. Being remarkably efficient in practice, PI is often favoured over alternative approaches such as Value Iteration and Linear Programming. Unfortunately, even after several decades of study, theoretical bounds on the complexity of PI remain unsatisfactory. For an MDP with n states and k actions, Mansour and Singh( 1999) bound the number of iterations taken by Howard\'92s PI, the canonical variant of the method, by O( kn / n). This bound merely improves upon the trivial bound of kn by a linear factor. However, a randomised variant of PI introduced by Mansour and Singh( 1999) does yield an exponential improvement, with its expected number of iterations bounded by O( ( ( 1 + 2/log2( k) ) k / 2) n). With the objective of furnishing improved upper bounds for PI, we introduce two randomised procedures in this paper. Our first contribution is a routine to find a good initial policy for PI. After evaluating a number of randomly generated policies, this procedure applies a novel criterion to pick one to initialise PI. When PI is subsequently applied, we show that the expected number of policy evaluations\'97including both the initialisation and the improvement stages\'97remains bounded in expectation by O( kn/2). The key construction employed in this routine is a total order on the set of policies. Our second contribution is a randomised action-switching rule for PI, which admits a bound of O( ( 2 + ln( k \'96 1) ) n) on the expected number of iterations. To the best of our knowledge, this is the tightest complexity bound known for PI when k >= 3.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10408,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10408,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Planning and Scheduling,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Rawlsian Fairness in Online Bipartite Matching: Two-Sided, Group, and Individual",Seyed Esmaeili;Sharmila Duppala;Davidson Cheng;Vedant Nanda;Aravind Srinivasan;John P. Dickerson,"Online bipartite-matching platforms are ubiquitous and find applications in important areas such as crowdsourcing and ridesharing. In the most general form, the platform consists of three entities: two sides to be matched and a platform operator that decides the matching. The design of algorithms for such platforms has traditionally focused on the operator\'92s( expected) profit. Since fairness has become an important consideration that was ignored in the existing algorithms a collection of online matching algorithms have been developed that give a fair treatment guarantee for one side of the market at the expense of a drop in the operator\'92s profit. In this paper, we generalize the existing work to offer fair treatment guarantees to both sides of the market simultaneously, at a calculated worst case drop to operator profit. We consider group and individual Rawlsian fairness criteria. Moreover, our algorithms have theoretical guarantees and have adjustable parameters that can be tuned as desired to balance the trade-off between the utilities of the three sides. We also derive hardness results that give clear upper bounds over the performance of any algorithm.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25698,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25698,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Re2EMA: Regularized and Reinitialized Exponential Moving Average for Target Model Update in Object Tracking,Jianglei Huang;Wengang Zhou,"Target model update plays an important role in visual object tracking. However, performing optimal model update is challenging. In this work, we propose to achieve an optimal target model by learning a transformation matrix from the last target model to the newly generated one, which results into a minimization objective. In this objective, there exists two challenges. The first is that the newly generated target model is unreliable. To overcome this problem, we propose to impose a penalty to limit the distance between the learned target model and the last one. The second is that as time evolves, we can not decide whether the last target model has been corrupted or not. To get out of this dilemma, we propose a reinitialization term. Besides, to control the complexity of the transformation matrix, we also add a regularizer. We find that the optimization formula\'92s solution, with some simplifications, degenerates to EMA. Finally, despite the simplicity, extensive experiments conducted on several commonly used benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach in relatively long term scenarios.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4862,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33018457,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reactive Versus Anticipative Decision Making in a Novel Gift-Giving Game,Elias Fern\'e1ndez Domingos;Juan Burguillo;Tom Lenaerts,"Evolutionary game theory focuses on the fitness differences between simple discrete or probabilistic strategies to explain the evolution of particular decision-making behavior within strategic situations. Although this approach has provided substantial insights into the presence of fairness or generosity in gift-giving games, it does not fully resolve the question of which cognitive mechanisms are required to produce the choices observed in experiments. One such mechanism that humans have acquired, is the capacity to anticipate. Prior work showed that forward-looking behavior, using a recurrent neural network to model the cognitive mechanism, are essential to produce the actions of human participants in behavioral experiments. In this paper, we evaluate whether this conclusion extends also to gift-giving games, more concretely, to a game that combines the dictator game with a partner selection process. The recurrent neural network model used here for dictators, allows them to reason about a best response to past actions of the receivers( reactive model) or to decide which action will lead to a more successful outcome in the future( anticipatory model). We show for both models the decision dynamics while training, as well as the average behavior. We find that the anticipatory model is the only one capable of accounting for changes in the context of the game, a behavior also observed in experiments, expanding previous conclusions to this more sophisticated game.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11151,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11151,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track on Cognitive Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Read + Verify: Machine Reading Comprehension with Unanswerable Questions,Minghao Hu;Furu Wei;Yuxing Peng;Zhen Huang;Nan Yang;Dongsheng Li,"Machine reading comprehension with unanswerable questions aims to abstain from answering when no answer can be inferred. In addition to extract answers, previous works usually predict an additional \'93no-answer\'94 probability to detect unanswerable cases. However, they fail to validate the answerability of the question by verifying the legitimacy of the predicted answer. To address this problem, we propose a novel read-then-verify system, which not only utilizes a neural reader to extract candidate answers and produce no-answer probabilities, but also leverages an answer verifier to decide whether the predicted answer is entailed by the input snippets. Moreover, we introduce two auxiliary losses to help the reader better handle answer extraction as well as no-answer detection, and investigate three different architectures for the answer verifier. Our experiments on the SQuAD 2. 0 dataset show that our system obtains a score of 74. 2 F1 on test set, achieving state-of-the-art results at the time of submission( Aug. 28th, 2018).",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4619,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33016529,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"Read, Watch, and Move: Reinforcement Learning for Temporally Grounding Natural Language Descriptions in Videos",Dongliang He;Xiang Zhao;Jizhou Huang;Fu Li;Xiao Liu;Shilei Wen,"The task of video grounding, which temporally localizes a natural language description in a video, plays an important role in understanding videos. Existing studies have adopted strategies of sliding window over the entire video or exhaustively ranking all possible clip-sentence pairs in a presegmented video, which inevitably suffer from exhaustively enumerated candidates. To alleviate this problem, we formulate this task as a problem of sequential decision making by learning an agent which regulates the temporal grounding boundaries progressively based on its policy. Specifically, we propose a reinforcement learning based framework improved by multi-task learning and it shows steady performance gains by considering additional supervised boundary information during training. Our proposed framework achieves state-of-the-art performance on ActivityNet\'9218 DenseCaption dataset( Krishna et al. 2017) and Charades-STA dataset( Sigurdsson et al. 2016; Gao et al. 2017) while observing only 10 or less clips per video.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4854,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33018393,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Vision,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Real-Time Detection of Robotic Traffic in Online Advertising,Anand Muralidhar;Sharad Chitlangia;Rajat Agarwal;Muneeb Ahmed,"Detecting robotic traffic at scale on online ads needs an approach that is scalable, comprehensive, precise, and can rapidly respond to changing traffic patterns. In this paper we describe SLIDR or SLIce-Level Detection of Robots, a real-time deep neural network model trained with weak supervision to identify invalid clicks on online ads. We ensure fairness across different traffic slices by formulating a convex optimization problem that allows SLIDR to achieve optimal performance on individual traffic slices with a budget on overall false positives. SLIDR has been deployed since 2021 and safeguards advertiser campaigns on Amazon against robots clicking on ads on the e-commerce site. We describe some of the important lessons learned by deploying SLIDR that include guardrails that prevent updates of anomalous models and disaster recovery mechanisms to mitigate or correct decisions made by a faulty model.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26844,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26844,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,IAAI Technical Track on deployed Highly Innovative Applications of AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Real-Time Driver-Request Assignment in Ridesourcing,Hao Wang;Xiaohui Bei,"Online on-demand ridesourcing service has played a huge role in transforming urban transportation. A central function in most on-demand ridesourcing platforms is to dynamically assign drivers to rider requests that could balance the request waiting times and the driver pick-up distances. To deal with the online nature of this problem, existing literature either divides the time horizon into short windows and applies a static offline assignment algorithm within each window or assumes a fully online setting that makes decisions for each request immediately upon its arrival. In this paper, we propose a more realistic model for the driver-request assignment that bridges the above two settings together. Our model allows the requests to wait after their arrival but assumes that they may leave at any time following a quitting function. Under this model, we design an efficient algorithm for assigning available drivers to requests in real-time. Our algorithm is able to incorporate future estimated driver arrivals into consideration and make strategic waiting and matching decisions that could balance the waiting time and pick-up distance of the assignment. We prove that our algorithm is optimal ex-ante in the single-request setting, and demonstrate its effectiveness in the general multi-request setting through experiments on both synthetic and real-world datasets.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20299,10.1609/aaai.v36i4.20299,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Constraint Satisfaction and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Real-Time Planning as Decision-Making under Uncertainty,Andrew Mitchell;Wheeler Ruml;Fabian Spaniol;Jorg Hoffmann;Marek Petrik,"In real-time planning, an agent must select the next action to take within a fixed time bound. Many popular real-time heuristic search methods approach this by expanding nodes using time-limited A* and selecting the action leading toward the frontier node with the lowest f value. In this paper, we reconsider real-time planning as a problem of decision-making under uncertainty. We propose treating heuristic values as uncertain evidence and we explore several backup methods for aggregating this evidence. We then propose a novel lookahead strategy that expands nodes to minimize risk, the expected regret in case a non-optimal action is chosen. We evaluate these methods in a simple synthetic benchmark and the sliding tile puzzle and find that they outperform previous methods. This work illustrates how uncertainty can arise even when solving deterministic planning problems, due to the inherent ignorance of time-limited search algorithms about those portions of the state space that they have not computed, and how an agent can benefit from explicitly metareasoning about this uncertainty.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4073,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012338,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Heuristic Search and Optimization,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reasoning about Causality in Games( Abstract Reprint),Lewis Hammond;James Fox;Tom Everitt;Ryan Carey;Alessandro Abate;Michael Wooldridge,"Causal reasoning and game-theoretic reasoning are fundamental topics in artificial intelligence, among many other disciplines: this paper is concerned with their intersection. Despite their importance, a formal framework that supports both these forms of reasoning has, until now, been lacking. We offer a solution in the form of( structural) causal games, which can be seen as extending Pearls causal hierarchy to the game-theoretic domain, or as extending Koller and Milchs multi-agent influence diagrams to the causal domain. We then consider three key questions: i) How can the( causal) dependencies in games \'96 either between variables, or between strategies \'96 be modelled in a uniform, principled manner? ii) How may causal queries be computed in causal games, and what assumptions does this require? iii) How do causal games compare to existing formalisms? To address question i) , we introduce mechanised games, which encode dependencies between agents decision rules and the distributions governing the game. In response to question ii) , we present definitions of predictions, interventions, and counterfactuals, and discuss the assumptions required for each. Regarding question iii) , we describe correspondences between causal games and other formalisms, and explain how causal games can be used to answer queries that other causal or game-theoretic models do not support. Finally, we highlight possible applications of causal games, aided by an extensive open-source Python library.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30597,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30597,1,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Journal Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reasoning about Cognitive Trust in Stochastic Multiagent Systems,Xiaowei Huang;Marta Kwiatkowska,"We consider the setting of stochastic multiagent systems and formulate an automated verification framework for quantifying and reasoning about agents trust. To capture human trust, we work with a cognitive notion of trust defined as a subjective evaluation that agent A makes about agent Bs ability to complete a task, which in turn may lead to a decision by A to rely on B. We propose a probabilistic rational temporal logic PRTL*, which extends the logic PCTL* with reasoning about mental attitudes( beliefs, goals and intentions) , and includes novel operators that can express concepts of social trust such as competence, disposition and dependence. The logic can express, for example, that agent A will eventually trust agent B with probability at least p that B will be have in a way that ensures the successful completion of a given task. We study the complexity of the automated verification problem and, while the general problem is undecidable, we identify restrictions on the logic and the system that result in decidable, or even tractable, subproblems.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11050,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11050,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reasoning on Knowledge Graphs with Debate Dynamics,Marcel Hildebrandt;Jorge Andres Quintero Serna;Yunpu Ma;Martin Ringsquandl;Mitchell Joblin;Volker Tresp,"We propose a novel method for automatic reasoning on knowledge graphs based on debate dynamics. The main idea is to frame the task of triple classification as a debate game between two reinforcement learning agents which extract arguments \'96 paths in the knowledge graph \'96 with the goal to promote the fact being true( thesis) or the fact being false( antithesis) , respectively. Based on these arguments, a binary classifier, called the judge, decides whether the fact is true or false. The two agents can be considered as sparse, adversarial feature generators that present interpretable evidence for either the thesis or the antithesis. In contrast to other black-box methods, the arguments allow users to get an understanding of the decision of the judge. Since the focus of this work is to create an explainable method that maintains a competitive predictive accuracy, we benchmark our method on the triple classification and link prediction task. Thereby, we find that our method outperforms several baselines on the benchmark datasets FB15k-237, WN18RR, and Hetionet. We also conduct a survey and find that the extracted arguments are informative for users.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6600,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6600,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Recognising Multidimensional Euclidean Preferences,Dominik Peters,"Euclidean preferences are a widely studied preference model, in which decision makers and alternatives are embedded in d-dimensional Euclidean space. Decision makers prefer those alternatives closer to them. This model, also known as multidimensional unfolding, has applications in economics, psychometrics, marketing, and many other fields. We study the problem of deciding whether a given preference profile is d-Euclidean. For the one-dimensional case, polynomial-time algorithms are known. We show that, in contrast, for every other fixed dimension d > 1, the recognition problem is equivalent to the existential theory of the reals( ETR) , and so in particular NP-hard. We further show that some Euclidean preference profiles require exponentially many bits in order to specify any Euclidean embedding, and prove that the domain of d-Euclidean preferences does not admit a finite forbidden minor characterisation for any d > 1. We also study dichotomous preferences and the behaviour of other metrics, and survey a variety of related work.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10616,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10616,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Recurrent Graph Neural Networks and Their Connections to Bisimulation and Logic,Maximilian Pflueger;David Tena Cucala;Egor V. Kostylev,"The success of Graph Neural Networks( GNNs) in practice has motivated extensive research on their theoretical properties. This includes recent results that characterise node classifiers expressible by GNNs in terms of first order logic. Most of the analysis, however, has been focused on GNNs with fixed number of message-passing iterations( i. e. , layers) , which cannot realise many simple classifiers such as reachability of a node with a given label. In this paper, we start to fill this gap and study the foundations of GNNs that can perform more than a fixed number of message-passing iterations. We first formalise two generalisations of the basic GNNs: recurrent GNNs( RecGNNs) , which repeatedly apply message-passing iterations until the node classifications become stable, and graph-size GNNs( GSGNNs) , which exploit a built-in function of the input graph size to decide the number of message-passings. We then formally prove that GNN classifiers are strictly less expressive than RecGNN ones, and RecGNN classifiers are strictly less expressive than GSGNN ones. To get this result, we identify novel semantic characterisations of the three formalisms in terms of suitable variants of bisimulation, which we believe have their own value for our understanding of GNNs. Finally, we prove syntactic logical characterisations of RecGNNs and GSGNNs analogous to the logical characterisation of plain GNNs, where we connect the two formalisms to monadic monotone fixpoint logic---a generalisation of first-order logic that supports recursion.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29377,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29377,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Recursion in Abstract Argumentation is Hard --- On the Complexity of Semantics Based on Weak Admissibility,Wolfgang Dvo\uc0\u345 \'e1k;Markus Ulbricht;Stefan Woltran,"We study the computational complexity of abstract argumentation semantics based on weak admissibility, a recently introduced concept to deal with arguments of self-defeating nature. Our results reveal that semantics based on weak admissibility are of much higher complexity( under typical assumptions) compared to all argumentation semantics which have been analysed in terms of complexity so far. In fact, we show PSPACE-completeness of all non-trivial standard decision problems for weak-admissible based semantics. We then investigate potential tractable fragments and show that restricting the frameworks under consideration to certain graph-classes significantly reduces the complexity. As a strategy for implementation we also provide a polynomial-time reduction to DATALOG with stratified negation.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16781,10.1609/aaai.v35i7.16781,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Recursively Binary Modification Model for Nested Named Entity Recognition,Bing Li;Shifeng Liu;Yifang Sun;Wei Wang;Xiang Zhao,"Recently, there has been an increasing interest in identifying named entities with nested structures. Existing models only make independent typing decisions on the entire entity span while ignoring strong modification relations between sub-entity types. In this paper, we present a novel Recursively Binary Modification model for nested named entity recognition. Our model utilizes the modification relations among sub-entities types to infer the head component on top of a Bayesian framework and uses entity head as a strong evidence to determine the type of the entity span. The process is recursive, allowing lower-level entities to help better model those on the outer-level. To the best of our knowledge, our work is the first effort that uses modification relation in nested NER task. Extensive experiments on four benchmark datasets demonstrate that our model outperforms state-of-the-art models in nested NER tasks, and delivers competitive results with state-of-the-art models in flat NER task, without relying on any extra annotations or NLP tools.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6329,10.1609/aaai.v34i05.6329,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Natural Language Processing,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Redactor: A Data-Centric and Individualized Defense against Inference Attacks,Geon Heo;Steven Euijong Whang,"Information leakage is becoming a critical problem as various information becomes publicly available by mistake, and machine learning models train on that data to provide services. As a result, ones private information could easily be memorized by such trained models. Unfortunately, deleting information is out of the question as the data is already exposed to the Web or third-party platforms. Moreover, we cannot necessarily control the labeling process and the model trainings by other parties either. In this setting, we study the problem of targeted disinformation generation where the goal is to dilute the data and thus make a model safer and more robust against inference attacks on a specific target( e. g. , a persons profile) by only inserting new data. Our method finds the closest points to the target in the input space that will be labeled as a different class. Since we cannot control the labeling process, we instead conservatively estimate the labels probabilistically by combining decision boundaries of multiple classifiers using data programming techniques. Our experiments show that a probabilistic decision boundary can be a good proxy for labelers, and that our approach is effective in defending against inference attacks and can scale to large data.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26737,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26737,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Referee-Meta-Learning for Fast Adaptation of Locational Fairness,Weiye Chen;Yiqun Xie;Xiaowei Jia;Erhu He;Han Bao;Bang An;Xun Zhou,"When dealing with data from distinct locations, machine learning algorithms tend to demonstrate an implicit preference of some locations over the others, which constitutes biases that sabotage the spatial fairness of the algorithm. This unfairness can easily introduce biases in subsequent decision-making given broad adoptions of learning-based solutions in practice. However, locational biases in AI are largely understudied. To mitigate biases over locations, we propose a locational meta-referee( Meta-Ref) to oversee the few-shot meta-training and meta-testing of a deep neural network. Meta-Ref dynamically adjusts the learning rates for training samples of given locations to advocate a fair performance across locations, through an explicit consideration of locational biases and the characteristics of input data. We present a three-phase training framework to learn both a meta-learning-based predictor and an integrated Meta-Ref that governs the fairness of the model. Once trained with a distribution of spatial tasks, Meta-Ref is applied to samples from new spatial tasks( i. e. , regions outside the training area) to promote fairness during the fine-tune step. We carried out experiments with two case studies on crop monitoring and transportation safety, which show Meta-Ref can improve locational fairness while keeping the overall prediction quality at a similar level.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30197,10.1609/aaai.v38i20.30197,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on AI for Social Impact Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Regional Tree Regularization for Interpretability in Deep Neural Networks,Mike Wu;Sonali Parbhoo;Michael Hughes;Ryan Kindle;Leo Celi;Maurizio Zazzi;Volker Roth;Finale Doshi-Velez,"The lack of interpretability remains a barrier to adopting deep neural networks across many safety-critical domains. Tree regularization was recently proposed to encourage a deep neural networks decisions to resemble those of a globally compact, axis-aligned decision tree. However, it is often unreasonable to expect a single tree to predict well across all possible inputs. In practice, doing so could lead to neither interpretable nor performant optima. To address this issue, we propose regional tree regularization \'96 a method that encourages a deep model to be well-approximated by several separate decision trees specific to predefined regions of the input space. Across many datasets, including two healthcare applications, we show our approach delivers simpler explanations than other regularization schemes without compromising accuracy. Specifically, our regional regularizer finds many more \'93desirable\'94 optima compared to global analogues.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6112,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.6112,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Regression under Human Assistance,Abir De;Paramita Koley;Niloy Ganguly;Manuel Gomez-Rodriguez,"Decisions are increasingly taken by both humans and machine learning models. However, machine learning models are currently trained for full automation\'97they are not aware that some of the decisions may still be taken by humans. In this paper, we take a first step towards the development of machine learning models that are optimized to operate under different automation levels. More specifically, we first introduce the problem of ridge regression under human assistance and show that it is NP-hard. Then, we derive an alternative representation of the corresponding objective function as a difference of nondecreasing submodular functions. Building on this representation, we further show that the objective is nondecreasing and satisfies \uc0\u945 -submodularity, a recently introduced notion of approximate submodularity. These properties allow a simple and efficient greedy algorithm to enjoy approximation guarantees at solving the problem. Experiments on synthetic and real-world data from two important applications\'97medical diagnosis and content moderation\'97demonstrate that the greedy algorithm beats several competitive baselines.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5645,10.1609/aaai.v34i03.5645,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Humans and AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Regret Analysis of Policy Gradient Algorithm for Infinite Horizon Average Reward Markov Decision Processes,Qinbo Bai;Washim Uddin Mondal;Vaneet Aggarwal,"In this paper, we consider an infinite horizon average reward Markov Decision Process( MDP). Distinguishing itself from existing works within this context, our approach harnesses the power of the general policy gradient-based algorithm, liberating it from the constraints of assuming a linear MDP structure. We propose a vanilla policy gradient-based algorithm and show its global convergence property. We then prove that the proposed algorithm has O( T^3/4) regret. Remarkably, this paper marks a pioneering effort by presenting the first exploration into regret bound computation for the general parameterized policy gradient algorithm in the context of average reward scenarios.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28973,10.1609/aaai.v38i10.28973,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Regret Minimisation in Multi-Armed Bandits Using Bounded Arm Memory,Arghya Roy Chaudhuri;Shivaram Kalyanakrishnan,"Regret minimisation in stochastic multi-armed bandits is a well-studied problem, for which several optimal algorithms have been proposed. Such algorithms depend on( sufficient statistics of) the empirical reward distributions of the arms to decide which arm to pull next. In this paper, we consider the design of algorithms that are constrained to store statistics from only a bounded number of arms. For bandits with a finite set of arms, we derive a sub-linear upper bound on the regret that decreases with the \'93arm memory\'94 size M. For instances with a large, possibly infinite, set of arms, we show a sub-linear bound on the quantile regret. Our problem formulation generalises that of Liau et al. ( 2018) , who fix M = O( 1) , and so do not obtain bounds that depend on M. More importantly, our algorithms keep exploration and exploitation tightly coupled, without a dedicated exploration phase as employed by Liau et al. ( 2018). Although this choice makes our analysis harder, it leads to much-improved practical performance. For bandits with a large number of arms and no known structure on the rewards, our algorithms serve as a viable option. Unlike many other approaches to restrict the memory of bandit algorithms, our algorithms do not need any additional technical assumptions.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6566,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6566,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Regularization Guarantees Generalization in Bayesian Reinforcement Learning through Algorithmic Stability,Aviv Tamar;Daniel Soudry;Ev Zisselman,"In the Bayesian reinforcement learning( RL) setting, a prior distribution over the unknown problem parameters -- the rewards and transitions -- is assumed, and a policy that optimizes the( posterior) expected return is sought. A common approximation, which has been recently popularized as meta-RL, is to train the agent on a sample of N problem instances from the prior, with the hope that for large enough N, good generalization behavior to an unseen test instance will be obtained. In this work, we study generalization in Bayesian RL under the probably approximately correct( PAC) framework, using the method of algorithmic stability. Our main contribution is showing that by adding regularization, the optimal policy becomes uniformly stable in an appropriate sense. Most stability results in the literature build on strong convexity of the regularized loss -- an approach that is not suitable for RL as Markov decision processes( MDPs) are not convex. Instead, building on recent results of fast convergence rates for mirror descent in regularized MDPs, we show that regularized MDPs satisfy a certain quadratic growth criterion, which is sufficient to establish stability. This result, which may be of independent interest, allows us to study the effect of regularization on generalization in the Bayesian RL setting.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20818,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20818,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Regularization in Hierarchical Time Series Forecasting with Application to Electricity Smart Meter Data,Souhaib Ben Taieb;Jiafan Yu;Mateus Barreto;Ram Rajagopal,"Accurate electricity demand forecast plays a key role in sustainable power systems. It enables better decision making in the planning of electricity generation and distribution for many use cases. The electricity demand data can often be represented in a hierarchical structure. For example, the electricity consumption of a whole country could be disaggregated by states, cities, and households. Hierarchical forecasts require not only good prediction accuracy at each level of the hierarchy, but also the consistency between different levels. State-of-the-art hierarchical forecasting methods usually apply adjustments on the individual level forecasts to satisfy the aggregation constraints. However, the high-dimensionality of the unpenalized regression problem and the estimation errors in the high-dimensional error covariance matrix can lead to increased variability in the revised forecasts with poor prediction performance. In order to provide more robustness to estimation errors in the adjustments, we present a new hierarchical forecasting algorithm that computes sparse adjustments while still preserving the aggregation constraints. We formulate the problem as a high-dimensional penalized regression, which can be efficiently solved using cyclical coordinate descent methods. We also conduct experiments using a large-scale hierarchical electricity demand data. The results confirm the effectiveness of our approach compared to state-of-the-art hierarchical forecasting methods, in both the sparsity of the adjustments and the prediction accuracy. The proposed approach to hierarchical forecasting could be useful for energy generation including solar and wind energy, as well as numerous other applications.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11167,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11167,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track on Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforced Approximate Exploratory Data Analysis,Shaddy Garg;Subrata Mitra;Tong Yu;Yash Gadhia;Arjun Kashettiwar,"Exploratory data analytics( EDA) is a sequential decision making process where analysts choose subsequent queries that might lead to some interesting insights based on the previous queries and corresponding results. Data processing systems often execute the queries on samples to produce results with low latency. Different downsampling strategy preserves different statistics of the data and have different magnitude of latency reductions. The optimum choice of sampling strategy often depends on the particular context of the analysis flow and the hidden intent of the analyst. In this paper, we are the first to consider the impact of sampling in interactive data exploration settings as they introduce approximation errors. We propose a Deep Reinforcement Learning( DRL) based framework which can optimize the sample selection in order to keep the analysis and insight generation flow intact. Evaluations with real datasets show that our technique can preserve the original insight generation flow while improving the interaction latency, compared to baseline methods.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25929,10.1609/aaai.v37i6.25929,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforced Imitative Graph Representation Learning for Mobile User Profiling: An Adversarial Training Perspective,Dongjie Wang;Pengyang Wang;Kunpeng Liu;Yuanchun Zhou;Charles E Hughes;Yanjie Fu,"In this paper, we study the problem of mobile user profiling, which is a critical component for quantifying users characteristics in the human mobility modeling pipeline. Human mobility is a sequential decision-making process dependent on the users dynamic interests. With accurate user profiles, the predictive model can perfectly reproduce users mobility trajectories. In the reverse direction, once the predictive model can imitate users mobility patterns, the learned user profiles are also optimal. Such intuition motivates us to propose an imitation-based mobile user profiling framework by exploiting reinforcement learning, in which the agent is trained to precisely imitate users mobility patterns for optimal user profiles. Specifically, the proposed framework includes two modules:( 1) representation module, that produces state combining user profiles and spatio-temporal context in real-time;( 2) imitation module, where Deep Q-network( DQN) imitates the user behavior( action) based on the state that is produced by the representation module. However, there are two challenges in running the framework effectively. First, epsilon-greedy strategy in DQN makes use of the exploration-exploitation trade-off by randomly pick actions with the epsilon probability. Such randomness feeds back to the representation module, causing the learned user profiles unstable. To solve the problem, we propose an adversarial training strategy to guarantee the robustness of the representation module. Second, the representation module updates users profiles in an incremental manner, requiring integrating the temporal effects of user profiles. Inspired by Long-short Term Memory( LSTM) , we introduce a gated mechanism to incorporate new and old user characteristics into the user profile. In the experiment, we evaluate our proposed framework on real-world datasets. The extensive experimental results validate the superiority of our method comparing to baseline algorithms.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16567,10.1609/aaai.v35i5.16567,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Data Mining and Knowledge Management,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning as a Parsimonious Alternative to Prediction Cascades: A Case Study on Image Segmentation,Bharat Srikishan;Anika Tabassum;Srikanth Allu;Ramakrishnan Kannan;Nikhil Muralidhar,"Deep learning architectures have achieved state-of-the-art( SOTA) performance on computer vision tasks such as object detection and image segmentation. This may be attributed to the use of over-parameterized, monolithic deep learning architectures executed on large datasets. Although such large architectures lead to increased accuracy, this is usually accompanied by a larger increase in computation and memory requirements during inference. While this is a non-issue in traditional machine learning( ML) pipelines, the recent confluence of machine learning and fields like the Internet of Things( IoT) has rendered such large architectures infeasible for execution in low-resource settings. For some datasets, large monolithic pipelines may be overkill for simpler inputs. To address this problem, previous efforts have proposed decision cascades where inputs are passed through models of increasing complexity until desired performance is achieved. However, we argue that cascaded prediction leads to sub-optimal throughput and increased computational cost due to wasteful intermediate computations. To address this, we propose PaSeR( Parsimonious Segmentation with Reinforcement Learning) a non-cascading, cost-aware learning pipeline as an efficient alternative to cascaded decision architectures. Through experimental evaluation on both real-world and standard datasets, we demonstrate that PaSeR achieves better accuracy while minimizing computational cost relative to cascaded models. Further, we introduce a new metric IoU/GigaFlop to evaluate the balance between cost and performance. On the real-world task of battery material phase segmentation, PaSeR yields a minimum performance improvement of 174% on the IoU/GigaFlop metric with respect to baselines. We also demonstrate PaSeRs adaptability to complementary models trained on a noisy MNIST dataset, where it achieved a minimum performance improvement on IoU/GigaFlop of 13. 4% over SOTA models. Code and data are available at github. com/scailab/paser.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29428,10.1609/aaai.v38i13.29428,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning Augmented Asymptotically Optimal Index Policy for Finite-Horizon Restless Bandits,Guojun Xiong;Jian Li;Rahul Singh,"We study a finite-horizon restless multi-armed bandit problem with multiple actions, dubbed as R( MA) ^2B. The state of each arm evolves according to a controlled Markov decision process( MDP) , and the reward of pulling an arm depends on both the current state and action of the corresponding MDP. Since finding the optimal policy is typically intractable, we propose a computationally appealing index policy entitled Occupancy-Measured-Reward Index Policy for the finite-horizon R( MA) ^2B. Our index policy is well-defined without the requirement of indexability condition and is provably asymptotically optimal as the number of arms tends to infinity. We then adopt a learning perspective where the system parameters are unknown, and propose R( MA) ^2B-UCB, a generative model based reinforcement learning augmented algorithm that can fully exploit the structure of Occupancy-Measured-Reward Index Policy. Compared to existing algorithms, R( MA) ^2B-UCB performs close to offline optimum, and achieves a sub-linear regret and a low computational complexity all at once. Experimental results show that R( MA) ^2B-UCB outperforms existing algorithms in both regret and running time.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20852,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20852,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning Based Dynamic Model Combination for Time Series Forecasting,Yuwei Fu;Di Wu;Benoit Boulet,"Time series data appears in many real-world fields such as energy, transportation, communication systems. Accurate modelling and forecasting of time series data can be of significant importance to improve the efficiency of these systems. Extensive research efforts have been taken for time series problems. Different types of approaches, including both statistical-based methods and machine learning-based methods, have been investigated. Among these methods, ensemble learning has shown to be effective and robust. However, it is still an open question that how we should determine weights for base models in the ensemble. Sub-optimal weights may prevent the final model from reaching its full potential. To deal with this challenge, we propose a reinforcement learning( RL) based model combination( RLMC) framework for determining model weights in an ensemble for time series forecasting tasks. By formulating model selection as a sequential decision-making problem, RLMC learns a deterministic policy to output dynamic model weights for non-stationary time series data. RLMC further leverages deep learning to learn hidden features from raw time series data to adapt fast to the changing data distribution. Extensive experiments on multiple real-world datasets have been implemented to showcase the effectiveness of the proposed method.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20618,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20618,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning of Causal Variables Using Mediation Analysis,Tue Herlau;Rasmus Larsen,"We consider the problem of acquiring causal representations and concepts in a reinforcement learning setting. Our approach defines a causal variable as being both manipulable by a policy, and able to predict the outcome. We thereby obtain a parsimonious causal graph in which interventions occur at the level of policies. The approach avoids defining a generative model of the data, prior pre-processing, or learning the transition kernel of the Markov decision process. Instead, causal variables and policies are determined by maximizing a new optimization target inspired by mediation analysis, which differs from the expected return. The maximization is accomplished using a generalization of Bellmans equation which is shown to converge, and the method finds meaningful causal representations in a simulated environment.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20648,10.1609/aaai.v36i6.20648,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning of Risk-Constrained Policies in Markov Decision Processes,Tom\'e1\'9a Br\'e1zdil;Krishnendu Chatterjee;Petr Novotn\'fd;Ji\uc0\u345 \'ed Vahala,"Markov decision processes( MDPs) are the defacto framework for sequential decision making in the presence of stochastic uncertainty. A classical optimization criterion for MDPs is to maximize the expected discounted-sum payoff, which ignores low probability catastrophic events with highly negative impact on the system. On the other hand, risk-averse policies require the probability of undesirable events to be below a given threshold, but they do not account for optimization of the expected payoff. We consider MDPs with discounted-sum payoff with failure states which represent catastrophic outcomes. The objective of risk-constrained planning is to maximize the expected discounted-sum payoff among risk-averse policies that ensure the probability to encounter a failure state is below a desired threshold. Our main contribution is an efficient risk-constrained planning algorithm that combines UCT-like search with a predictor learned through interaction with the MDP( in the style of AlphaZero) and with a risk-constrained action selection via linear programming. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach with experiments on classical MDPs from the literature, including benchmarks with an order of 106 states.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/6531,10.1609/aaai.v34i06.6531,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track: Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning of Sequential Price Mechanisms,Gianluca Brero;Alon Eden;Matthias Gerstgrasser;David Parkes;Duncan Rheingans-Yoo,"We introduce the use of reinforcement learning for indirect mechanisms, working with the existing class of sequential price mechanisms, which generalizes both serial dictatorship and posted price mechanisms and essentially characterizes all strongly obviously strategyproof mechanisms. Learning an optimal mechanism within this class forms a partially-observable Markov decision process. We provide rigorous conditions for when this class of mechanisms is more powerful than simpler static mechanisms, for sufficiency or insufficiency of observation statistics for learning, and for the necessity of complex( deep) policies. We show that our approach can learn optimal or near-optimal mechanisms in several experimental settings.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16659,10.1609/aaai.v35i6.16659,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning When All Actions Are Not Always Available,Yash Chandak;Georgios Theocharous;Blossom Metevier;Philip Thomas,"The Markov decision process( MDP) formulation used to model many real-world sequential decision making problems does not efficiently capture the setting where the set of available decisions( actions) at each time step is stochastic. Recently, the stochastic action set Markov decision process( SAS-MDP) formulation has been proposed, which better captures the concept of a stochastic action set. In this paper we argue that existing RL algorithms for SAS-MDPs can suffer from potential divergence issues, and present new policy gradient algorithms for SAS-MDPs that incorporate variance reduction techniques unique to this setting, and provide conditions for their convergence. We conclude with experiments that demonstrate the practicality of our approaches on tasks inspired by real-life use cases wherein the action set is stochastic.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5740,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5740,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning with Non-Markovian Rewards,Maor Gaon;Ronen Brafman,"The standard RL world model is that of a Markov Decision Process( MDP). A basic premise of MDPs is that the rewards depend on the last state and action only. Yet, many real-world rewards are non-Markovian. For example, a reward for bringing coffee only if requested earlier and not yet served, is non-Markovian if the state only records current requests and deliveries. Past work considered the problem of modeling and solving MDPs with non-Markovian rewards( NMR) , but we know of no principled approaches for RL with NMR. Here, we address the problem of policy learning from experience with such rewards. We describe and evaluate empirically four combinations of the classical RL algorithm Q-learning and R-max with automata learning algorithms to obtain new RL algorithms for domains with NMR. We also prove that some of these variants converge to an optimal policy in the limit.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5814,10.1609/aaai.v34i04.5814,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement Learning with Parameterized Actions,Warwick Masson;Pravesh Ranchod;George Konidaris,"We introduce a model-free algorithm for learning in Markov decision processes with parameterized actions\'97discrete actions with continuous parameters. At each step the agent must select both which action to use and which parameters to use with that action. We introduce the Q-PAMDP algorithm for learning in these domains, show that it converges to a local optimum, and compare it to direct policy search in the goal-scoring and Platform domains.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10226,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10226,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Machine Learning Methods,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reinforcement-Learning Based Portfolio Management with Augmented Asset Movement Prediction States,Yunan Ye;Hengzhi Pei;Boxin Wang;Pin-Yu Chen;Yada Zhu;Ju Xiao;Bo Li,"Portfolio management( PM) is a fundamental financial planning task that aims to achieve investment goals such as maximal profits or minimal risks. Its decision process involves continuous derivation of valuable information from various data sources and sequential decision optimization, which is a prospective research direction for reinforcement learning( RL). In this paper, we propose SARL, a novel State-Augmented RL framework for PM. Our framework aims to address two unique challenges in financial PM:( 1) data heterogeneity \'96 the collected information for each asset is usually diverse, noisy and imbalanced( e. g. , news articles) ; and( 2) environment uncertainty \'96 the financial market is versatile and non-stationary. To incorporate heterogeneous data and enhance robustness against environment uncertainty, our SARL augments the asset information with their price movement prediction as additional states, where the prediction can be solely based on financial data( e. g. , asset prices) or derived from alternative sources such as news. Experiments on two real-world datasets, ( i) Bitcoin market and( ii) HighTech stock market with 7-year Reuters news articles, validate the effectiveness of SARL over existing PM approaches, both in terms of accumulated profits and risk-adjusted profits. Moreover, extensive simulations are conducted to demonstrate the importance of our proposed state augmentation, providing new insights and boosting performance significantly over standard RL-based PM method and other baselines.",2020,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/5462,10.1609/aaai.v34i01.5462,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Applications,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Relative Policy-Transition Optimization for Fast Policy Transfer,Jiawei Xu;Cheng Zhou;Yizheng Zhang;Baoxiang Wang;Lei Han,"We consider the problem of policy transfer between two Markov Decision Processes( MDPs). We introduce a lemma based on existing theoretical results in reinforcement learning to measure the relativity gap between two arbitrary MDPs, that is the difference between any two cumulative expected returns defined on different policies and environment dynamics. Based on this lemma, we propose two new algorithms referred to as Relative Policy Optimization( RPO) and Relative Transition Optimization( RTO) , which offer fast policy transfer and dynamics modelling, respectively. RPO transfers the policy evaluated in one environment to maximize the return in another, while RTO updates the parameterized dynamics model to reduce the gap between the dynamics of the two environments. Integrating the two algorithms results in the complete Relative Policy-Transition Optimization( RPTO) algorithm, in which the policy interacts with the two environments simultaneously, such that data collections from two environments, policy and transition updates are completed in one closed loop to form a principled learning framework for policy transfer. We demonstrate the effectiveness of RPTO on a set of MuJoCo continuous control tasks by creating policy transfer problems via variant dynamics.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29550,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29550,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reliable Conflictive Multi-View Learning,Cai Xu;Jiajun Si;Ziyu Guan;Wei Zhao;Yue Wu;Xiyue Gao,"Multi-view learning aims to combine multiple features to achieve more comprehensive descriptions of data. Most previous works assume that multiple views are strictly aligned. However, real-world multi-view data may contain low-quality conflictive instances, which show conflictive information in different views. Previous methods for this problem mainly focus on eliminating the conflictive data instances by removing them or replacing conflictive views. Nevertheless, real-world applications usually require making decisions for conflictive instances rather than only eliminating them. To solve this, we point out a new Reliable Conflictive Multi-view Learning( RCML) problem, which requires the model to provide decision results and attached reliabilities for conflictive multi-view data. We develop an Evidential Conflictive Multi-view Learning( ECML) method for this problem. ECML first learns view-specific evidence, which could be termed as the amount of support to each category collected from data. Then, we can construct view-specific opinions consisting of decision results and reliability. In the multi-view fusion stage, we propose a conflictive opinion aggregation strategy and theoretically prove this strategy can exactly model the relation of multi-view common and view-specific reliabilities. Experiments performed on 6 datasets verify the effectiveness of ECML. The code is released at https://github. com/jiajunsi/RCML.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29546,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29546,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,RepeatNet: A Repeat Aware Neural Recommendation Machine for Session-Based Recommendation,Pengjie Ren;Zhumin Chen;Jing Li;Zhaochun Ren;Jun Ma;Maarten de Rijke,"Recurrent neural networks for session-based recommendation have attracted a lot of attention recently because of their promising performance. repeat consumption is a common phenomenon in many recommendation scenarios( e. g. , e-commerce, music, and TV program recommendations) , where the same item is re-consumed repeatedly over time. However, no previous studies have emphasized repeat consumption with neural networks. An effective neural approach is needed to decide when to perform repeat recommendation. In this paper, we incorporate a repeat-explore mechanism into neural networks and propose a new model, called RepeatNet, with an encoder-decoder structure. RepeatNet integrates a regular neural recommendation approach in the decoder with a new repeat recommendation mechanism that can choose items from a user\'92s history and recommends them at the right time. We report on extensive experiments on three benchmark datasets. RepeatNet outperforms state-of-the-art baselines on all three datasets in terms of MRR and Recall. Furthermore, as the dataset size and the repeat ratio increase, the improvements of RepeatNet over the baselines also increase, which demonstrates its advantage in handling repeat recommendation scenarios.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4408,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33014806,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Machine Learning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Representation with Incomplete Votes,Daniel Halpern;Gregory Kehne;Ariel D. Procaccia;Jamie Tucker-Foltz;Manuel W\'fcthrich,"Platforms for online civic participation rely heavily on methods for condensing thousands of comments into a relevant handful, based on whether participants agree or disagree with them. These methods should guarantee fair representation of the participants, as their outcomes may affect the health of the conversation and inform impactful downstream decisions. To that end, we draw on the literature on approval-based committee elections. Our setting is novel in that the approval votes are incomplete since participants will typically not vote on all comments. We prove that this complication renders non-adaptive algorithms impractical in terms of the amount of information they must gather. Therefore, we develop an adaptive algorithm that uses information more efficiently by presenting incoming participants with statements that appear promising based on votes by previous participants. We prove that this method satisfies commonly used notions of fair representation, even when participants only vote on a small fraction of comments. Finally, an empirical evaluation using real data shows that the proposed algorithm provides representative outcomes in practice.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25702,10.1609/aaai.v37i5.25702,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Representing and Learning Grammars in Answer Set Programming,Mark Law;Alessandra Russo;Elisa Bertino;Krysia Broda;Jorge Lobo,"In this paper we introduce an extension of context-free grammars called answer set grammars( ASGs). These grammars allow annotations on production rules, written in the language of Answer Set Programming( ASP) , which can express context-sensitive constraints. We investigate the complexity of various classes of ASG with respect to two decision problems: deciding whether a given string belongs to the language of an ASG and deciding whether the language of an ASG is non-empty. Specifically, we show that the complexity of these decision problems can be lowered by restricting the subset of the ASP language used in the annotations. To aid the applicability of these grammars to computational problems that require context-sensitive parsers for partially known languages, we propose a learning task for inducing the annotations of an ASG. We characterise the complexity of this task and present an algorithm for solving it. An evaluation of a( prototype) implementation is also discussed.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4147,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33012919,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Resource Graph Games: A Compact Representation for Games with Structured Strategy Spaces,Albert Jiang;Hau Chan;Kevin Leyton-Brown,"In many real-world systems, strategic agents decisions can be understood as complex - i. e. , consisting of multiple sub-decisions - and hence can give rise to an exponential number of pure strategies. Examples include network congestion games, simultaneous auctions, and security games. However, agents sets of strategies are often structured, allowing them to be represented compactly. There currently exists no general modeling language that captures a wide range of commonly seen strategy structure and utility structure. We propose Resource Graph Games( RGGs) , the first general compact representation for games with structured strategy spaces, which is able to represent a wide range of games studied in literature. We leverage recent results about multilinearity, a key property of games that allows us to represent the mixed strategies compactly, and, as a result, to compute various equilibrium concepts efficiently. While not all RGGs are multilinear, we provide a general method of converting RGGs to those that are multilinear, and identify subclasses of RGGs whose converted version allow efficient computation.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10618,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.10618,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Game Theory and Economic Paradigms,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Responsibility Attribution in Parameterized Markovian Models,Christel Baier;Florian Funke;Rupak Majumdar,"We consider the problem of responsibility attribution in the setting of parametric Markov chains. Given a family of Markov chains over a set of parameters, and a property, responsibility attribution asks how the difference in the value of the property should be attributed to the parameters when they change from one point in the parameter space to another. We formalize responsibility as path-based attribution schemes studied in cooperative game theory. An attribution scheme in a game determines how a value( a surplus or a cost) is distributed among a set of participants. Path-based attribution schemes include the well-studied Aumann-Shapley and the Shapley-Shubik schemes. In our context, an attribution scheme measures the responsibility of each parameter on the value function of the parametric Markov chain. We study the decision problem for path-based attribution schemes. Our main technical result is an algorithm for deciding if a path-based attribution scheme for a rational( ratios of polynomials) cost function is over a rational threshold. In particular, it is decidable if the Aumann-Shapley value for a player is at least a given rational number. As a consequence, we show that responsibility attribution is decidable for parametric Markov chains and for a general class of properties that include expectation and variance of discounted sum and long-run average rewards, as well as specifications in temporal logic.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17395,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17395,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Responsible Bandit Learning via Privacy-Protected Mean-Volatility Utility,Shanshan Zhao;Wenhai Cui;Bei Jiang;Linglong Kong;Xiaodong Yan,"For ensuring the safety of users by protecting the privacy, the traditional privacy-preserving bandit algorithm aiming to maximize the mean reward has been widely studied in scenarios such as online ride-hailing, advertising recommendations, and personalized healthcare. However, classical bandit learning is irresponsible in such practical applications as they fail to account for risks in online decision-making and ignore external system information. This paper firstly proposes privacy protected mean-volatility utility as the objective of bandit learning and proves its responsibility, because it aims at achieving the maximum probability of utility by considering the risk. Theoretically, our proposed responsible bandit learning is expected to achieve the fastest convergence rate among current bandit algorithms and generates more statistical power than classical normality-based test. Finally, simulation studies provide supporting evidence for the theoretical results and demonstrate stronger performance when using stricter privacy budgets.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30182,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30182,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Responsible Robotics: A Socio-Ethical Addition to Robotics Courses,Joshua Vekhter;Joydeep Biswas,"We are witnessing a rapid increase in real-world autonomous robotic deployments in environments ranging from indoor homes and commercial establishments to large-scale urban areas, with applications ranging from domestic assistance to urban last-mile delivery. The developers of these robots inevitably have to make impactful design decisions to ensure commercially viability, but such decisions have serious real-world consequences. Unfortunately it is not uncommon for such projects to face intense bouts of social backlash, which can be attributed to a wide variety of causes, ranging from inappropriate technical design choices to transgressions of social norms and lack of community engagement. To better prepare students for the rigors of developing and deploying real-world robotics systems, we developed a Responsible Robotics teaching module, intended to be included in upper-division and graduate level robotics courses. Our module is structured as a role playing exercise which aims to equip students with a framework for navigating the conflicting goals of human actors which govern robots in the field. We report on instructor reflections and anonymous survey responses from offering our responsible robotics module in both a graduate-level, and an upper-division undergraduate robotics course at UT Austin. The responses indicate that students gained a deeper understanding of the socio-technical factors of real-world robotics deployments than they might have using self-study methods, and the students proactively suggested that such modules should be more broadly included in CS courses.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26885,10.1609/aaai.v37i13.26885,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,EAAI Symposium: Main Track,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Rethinking Boundaries: End-To-End Recognition of Discontinuous Mentions with Pointer Networks,Hao Fei;Donghong Ji;Bobo Li;Yijiang Liu;Yafeng Ren;Fei Li,"A majority of research interests in irregular( e. g. , nested or discontinuous) named entity recognition( NER) have been paid on nested entities, while discontinuous entities received limited attention. Existing work for discontinuous NER, however, either suffers from decoding ambiguity or predicting using token-level local features. In this work, we present an innovative model for discontinuous NER based on pointer networks, where the pointer simultaneously decides whether a token at each decoding frame constitutes an entity mention and where the next constituent token is. Our model has three major merits compared with previous work:( 1) The pointer mechanism is memory-augmented, which enhances the mention boundary detection and interactions between the current decision and prior recognized mentions. ( 2) The encoder-decoder architecture can linearize the complexity of structure prediction, and thus reduce search costs. ( 3) The model makes every decision using global information, i. e. , by consulting all the input, encoder and previous decoder output in a global view. Experimental results on the CADEC and ShARe13 datasets show that our model outperforms flat and hypergraph models as well as a state-of-the-art transition-based model for discontinuous NER. Further in-depth analysis demonstrates that our model performs well in recognizing various entities including flat, overlapping and discontinuous ones. More crucially, our model is effective on boundary detection, which is the kernel source to NER.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17513,10.1609/aaai.v35i14.17513,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Speech and Natural Language Processing I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Rethinking Robustness of Model Attributions,Sandesh Kamath;Sankalp Mittal;Amit Deshpande;Vineeth N Balasubramanian,"For machine learning models to be reliable and trustworthy, their decisions must be interpretable. As these models find increasing use in safety-critical applications, it is important that not just the model predictions but also their explanations( as feature attributions) be robust to small human-imperceptible input perturbations. Recent works have shown that many attribution methods are fragile and have proposed improvements in either these methods or the model training. We observe two main causes for fragile attributions: first, the existing metrics of robustness( e. g. , top-k intersection) overpenalize even reasonable local shifts in attribution, thereby making random perturbations to appear as a strong attack, and second, the attribution can be concentrated in a small region even when there are multiple important parts in an image. To rectify this, we propose simple ways to strengthen existing metrics and attribution methods that incorporate locality of pixels in robustness metrics and diversity of pixel locations in attributions. Towards the role of model training in attributional robustness, we empirically observe that adversarially trained models have more robust attributions on smaller datasets, however, this advantage disappears in larger datasets. Code is made available at https://github. com/ksandeshk/LENS.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/28047,10.1609/aaai.v38i3.28047,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Rethinking the Discount Factor in Reinforcement Learning: A Decision Theoretic Approach,Silviu Pitis,"Reinforcement learning( RL) agents have traditionally been tasked with maximizing the value function of a Markov decision process( MDP) , either in continuous settings, with fixed discount factor \uc0\u947  < 1, or in episodic settings, with \u947  = 1. While this has proven effective for specific tasks with welldefined objectives( e. g. , games) , it has never been established that fixed discounting is suitable for general purpose use( e. g. , as a model of human preferences). This paper characterizes rationality in sequential decision making using a set of seven axioms and arrives at a form of discounting that generalizes traditional fixed discounting. In particular, our framework admits a state-action dependent \'93discount\'94 factor that is not constrained to be less than 1, so long as there is eventual long run discounting. Although this broadens the range of possible preference structures in continuous settings, we show that there exists a unique \'93optimizing MDP\'94 with fixed \u947  < 1 whose optimal value function matches the true utility of the optimal policy, and we quantify the difference between value and utility for suboptimal policies. Our work can be seen as providing a normative justification for( a slight generalization of) Martha White\'92s RL task formalism( 2017) and other recent departures from the traditional RL, and is relevant to task specification in RL, inverse RL and preference-based RL.",2019,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/4795,10.1609/aaai.v33i01.33017949,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Reuse of Neural Modules for General Video Game Playing,Alexander Braylan;Mark Hollenbeck;Elliot Meyerson;Risto Miikkulainen,"A general approach to knowledge transfer is introduced in which an agent controlled by a neural network adapts how it reuses existing networks as it learns in a new domain. Networks trained for a new domain can improve their performance by routing activation selectively through previously learned neural structure, regardless of how or for what it was learned. A neuroevolution implementation of this approach is presented with application to high-dimensional sequential decision-making domains. This approach is more general than previous approaches to neural transfer for reinforcement learning. It is domain-agnostic and requires no prior assumptions about the nature of task relatedness or mappings. The method is analyzed in a stochastic version of the Arcade Learning Environment, demonstrating that it improves performance in some of the more complex Atari 2600 games, and that the success of transfer can be predicted based on a high-level characterization of game dynamics.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/10014,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.10014,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Technical Papers: Game Playing and Interactive Entertainment,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Revisiting Unsupervised Local Descriptor Learning,Wufan Wang;Lei Zhang;Hua Huang,"Constructing accurate training tuples is crucial for unsupervised local descriptor learning, yet challenging due to the absence of patch labels. The state-of-the-art approach constructs tuples with heuristic rules, which struggle to precisely depict real-world patch transformations, in spite of enabling fast model convergence. A possible solution to alleviate the problem is the clustering-based approach, which can capture realistic patch variations and learn more accurate class decision boundaries, but suffers from slow model convergence. This paper presents HybridDesc, an unsupervised approach that learns powerful local descriptor models with fast convergence speed by combining the rule-based and clustering-based approaches to construct training tuples. In addition, HybridDesc also contributes two concrete enhancing mechanisms:( 1) a Differentiable Hyperparameter Search( DHS) strategy to find the optimal hyperparameter setting of the rule-based approach so as to provide accurate prior for the clustering-based approach, ( 2) an On-Demand Clustering( ODC) method to reduce the clustering overhead of the clustering-based approach without eroding its advantage. Extensive experimental results show that HybridDesc can efficiently learn local descriptors that surpass existing unsupervised local descriptors and even rival competitive supervised ones.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25367,10.1609/aaai.v37i3.25367,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,ReX: An Efficient Approach to Reducing Memory Cost in Image Classification,Xuwei Qian;Renlong Hang;Qingshan Liu,"Exiting simple samples in adaptive multi-exit networks through early modules is an effective way to achieve high computational efficiency. One can observe that deployments of multi-exit architectures on resource-constrained devices are easily limited by high memory footprint of early modules. In this paper, we propose a novel approach named recurrent aggregation operator( ReX) , which uses recurrent neural networks( RNNs) to effectively aggregate intra-patch features within a large receptive field to get delicate local representations, while bypassing large early activations. The resulting model, named ReXNet, can be easily extended to dynamic inference by introducing a novel consistency-based early exit criteria, which is based on the consistency of classification decisions over several modules, rather than the entropy of the prediction distribution. Extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets, i. e. , Visual Wake Words, ImageNet-1k, demonstrate that our method consistently reduces the peak RAM and average latency of a wide variety of adaptive models on low-power devices.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20106,10.1609/aaai.v36i2.20106,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision II,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,RGMComm: Return Gap Minimization via Discrete Communications in Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning,Jingdi Chen;Tian Lan;Carlee Joe-Wong,"Communication is crucial for solving cooperative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning tasks in partially observable Markov Decision Processes. Existing works often rely on black-box methods to encode local information/features into messages shared with other agents, leading to the generation of continuous messages with high communication overhead and poor interpretability. Prior attempts at discrete communication methods generate one-hot vectors trained as part of agents actions and use the Gumbel softmax operation for calculating message gradients, which are all heuristic designs that do not provide any quantitative guarantees on the expected return. This paper establishes an upper bound on the return gap between an ideal policy with full observability and an optimal partially observable policy with discrete communication. This result enables us to recast multi-agent communication into a novel online clustering problem over the local observations at each agent, with messages as cluster labels and the upper bound on the return gap as clustering loss. To minimize the return gap, we propose the Return-Gap-Minimization Communication( RGMComm) algorithm, which is a surprisingly simple design of discrete message generation functions and is integrated with reinforcement learning through the utilization of a novel Regularized Information Maximization loss function, which incorporates cosine-distance as the clustering metric. Evaluations show that RGMComm significantly outperforms state-of-the-art multi-agent communication baselines and can achieve nearly optimal returns with few-bit messages that are naturally interpretable.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29680,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29680,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Rigging Nearly Acyclic Tournaments Is Fixed-Parameter Tractable,M. Ramanujan;Stefan Szeider,"Single-elimination tournaments( or knockout tournaments) are a popular format in sports competitions that is also widely used for decision making and elections. In this paper we study the algorithmic problem of manipulating the outcome of a tournament. More specifically, we study the problem of finding a seeding of the players such that a certain player wins the resulting tournament. The problem is known to be NP-hard in general. In this paper we present an algorithm for this problem that exploits structural restrictions on the tournament. More specifically, we establish that the problem is fixed-parameter tractable when parameterized by the size of a smallest feedback arc set of the tournament( interpreting the tournament as an oriented complete graph). This is a natural parameter because most problems on tournaments( including this one) are either trivial or easily solvable on acyclic tournaments, leading to the question \'97 what about nearly acyclic tournaments or tournaments with a small feedback arc set? Our result significantly improves upon a recent algorithm by Aziz et al. ( 2014) whose running time is bounded by an exponential function where the size of a smallest feedback arc set appears in the exponent and the base is the number of players.",2017,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/11132,10.1609/aaai.v31i1.11132,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Main Track: Search and Constraint Satisfaction,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Right for Better Reasons: Training Differentiable Models by Constraining their Influence Functions,Xiaoting Shao;Arseny Skryagin;Wolfgang Stammer;Patrick Schramowski;Kristian Kersting,"Explaining black-box models such as deep neural networks is becoming increasingly important as it helps to boost trust and debugging. Popular forms of explanations map the features to a vector indicating their individual importance to a decision on the instance-level. They can then be used to prevent the model from learning the wrong bias in data possibly due to ambiguity. For instance, Ross et al. s ``right for the right reasons propagates user explanations backwards to the network by formulating differentiable constraints based on input gradients. Unfortunately, input gradients as well as many other widely used explanation methods form an approximation of the decision boundary and assume the underlying model to be fixed. Here, we demonstrate how to make use of influence functions---a well known robust statistic---in the constraints to correct the model\'92s behaviour more effectively. Our empirical evidence demonstrates that this ``right for better reasons( RBR) considerably reduces the time to correct the classifier at training time and boosts the quality of explanations at inference time compared to input gradients. Besides, we also showcase the effectiveness of RBR in correcting Clever Hans-like behaviour in real, high-dimensional domain.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17148,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17148,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Risk-Aware Continuous Control with Neural Contextual Bandits,Jose A. Ayala-Romero;Andres Garcia-Saavedra;Xavier Costa-Perez,"Recent advances in learning techniques have garnered attention for their applicability to a diverse range of real-world sequential decision-making problems. Yet, many practical applications have critical constraints for operation in real environments. Most learning solutions often neglect the risk of failing to meet these constraints, hindering their implementation in real-world contexts. In this paper, we propose a risk-aware decision-making framework for contextual bandit problems, accommodating constraints and continuous action spaces. Our approach employs an actor multi-critic architecture, with each critic characterizing the distribution of performance and constraint metrics. Our framework is designed to cater to various risk levels, effectively balancing constraint satisfaction against performance. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, we first compare it against state-of-the-art baseline methods in a synthetic environment, highlighting the impact of intrinsic environmental noise across different risk configurations. Finally, we evaluate our framework in a real-world use case involving a 5G mobile network where only our approach satisfies consistently the system constraint( a signal processing reliability target) with a small performance toll( 8. 5% increase in power consumption).",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30083,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30083,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Risk-Aware Stochastic Shortest Path,Tobias Meggendorfer,"We treat the problem of risk-aware control for stochastic shortest path( SSP) on Markov decision processes( MDP). Typically, expectation is considered for SSP, which however is oblivious to the incurred risk. We present an alternative view, instead optimizing conditional value-at-risk( CVaR) , an established risk measure. We treat both Markov chains as well as MDP and introduce, through novel insights, two algorithms, based on linear programming and value iteration, respectively. Both algorithms offer precise and provably correct solutions. Evaluation of our prototype implementation shows that risk-aware control is feasible on several moderately sized models.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21222,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21222,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Risk-Conditioned Reinforcement Learning: A Generalized Approach for Adapting to Varying Risk Measures,Gwangpyo Yoo;Jinwoo Park;Honguk Woo,"In application domains requiring mission-critical decision making, such as finance and robotics, the optimal policy derived by reinforcement learning( RL) often hinges on a preference for risk management. Yet, the dynamic nature of risk measures poses considerable challenges to achieving generalization and adaptation of risk-sensitive policies in the context of RL. In this paper, we propose a risk-conditioned RL model that enables rapid policy adaptation to varying risk measures via a unified risk representation, the Weighted Value-at-Risk( WV@R). To sample risk measures that avoid undue optimism, we construct a risk proposal network employing a conditional adversarial auto-encoder and a normalizing flow. This network establishes coherent representations for risk measures, preserving the continuity in terms of the Wasserstein distance on the risk measures. The normalizing flow is used to support non-crossing quantile regression that obtains valid samples for risk measures, and it is also applied to the agent\'92s critic to ascertain the preservation of monotonicity in quantile estimations. Through experiments with locomotion, finance, and self-driving scenarios, we show that our model is capable of adapting to a range of risk measures, achieving comparable performance to the baseline models individually trained for each measure. Our model often outperforms the baselines, especially in the cases when exploration is required during training but risk-aversion is favored during evaluation.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29589,10.1609/aaai.v38i15.29589,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning VI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Risk-Sensitive Submodular Optimization,Bryan Wilder,"The conditional value at risk( CVaR) is a popular risk measure which enables risk-averse decision making under uncertainty. We consider maximizing the CVaR of a continuous submodular function, an extension of submodular set functions to a continuous domain. One example application is allocating a continuous amount of energy to each sensor in a network, with the goal of detecting intrusion or contamination. Previous work allows maximization of the CVaR of a linear or concave function. Continuous submodularity represents a natural set of nonconcave functions with diminishing returns, to which existing techniques do not apply. We give a( 1 - 1/e) -approximation algorithm for maximizing the CVaR of a monotone continuous submodular function. This also yields an algorithm for submodular set functions which produces a distribution over feasible sets with guaranteed CVaR. Experimental results in two sensor placement domains confirm that our algorithm substantially outperforms competitive baselines.",2018,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/12121,10.1609/aaai.v32i1.12121,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track: Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,RLogist: Fast Observation Strategy on Whole-Slide Images with Deep Reinforcement Learning,Boxuan Zhao;Jun Zhang;Deheng Ye;Jian Cao;Xiao Han;Qiang Fu;Wei Yang,"Whole-slide images( WSI) in computational pathology have high resolution with gigapixel size, but are generally with sparse regions of interest, which leads to weak diagnostic relevance and data inefficiency for each area in the slide. Most of the existing methods rely on a multiple instance learning framework that requires densely sampling local patches at high magnification. The limitation is evident in the application stage as the heavy computation for extracting patch-level features is inevitable. In this paper, we develop RLogist, a benchmarking deep reinforcement learning( DRL) method for fast observation strategy on WSIs. Imitating the diagnostic logic of human pathologists, our RL agent learns how to find regions of observation value and obtain representative features across multiple resolution levels, without having to analyze each part of the WSI at the high magnification. We benchmark our method on two whole-slide level classification tasks, including detection of metastases in WSIs of lymph node sections, and subtyping of lung cancer. Experimental results demonstrate that RLogist achieves competitive classification performance compared to typical multiple instance learning algorithms, while having a significantly short observation path. In addition, the observation path given by RLogist provides good decision-making interpretability, and its ability of reading path navigation can potentially be used by pathologists for educational/assistive purposes. Our code is available at: https://github. com/tencent-ailab/RLogist.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/25467,10.1609/aaai.v37i3.25467,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Computer Vision III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Active Measuring under Model Uncertainty,Merlijn Krale;Thiago D. Sim\'e3o;Jana Tumova;Nils Jansen,"Partial observability and uncertainty are common problems in sequential decision-making that particularly impede the use of formal models such as Markov decision processes( MDPs). However, in practice, agents may be able to employ costly sensors to measure their environment and resolve partial observability by gathering information. Moreover, imprecise transition functions can capture model uncertainty. We combine these concepts and extend MDPs to robust active-measuring MDPs( RAM-MDPs). We present an active-measure heuristic to solve RAM-MDPs efficiently and show that model uncertainty can, counterintuitively, let agents take fewer measurements. We propose a method to counteract this behavior while only incurring a bounded additional cost. We empirically compare our methods to several baselines and show their superior scalability and performance.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30122,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30122,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Adversarial Reinforcement Learning with Dissipation Inequation Constraint,Peng Zhai;Jie Luo;Zhiyan Dong;Lihua Zhang;Shunli Wang;Dingkang Yang,"Robust adversarial reinforcement learning is an effective method to train agents to manage uncertain disturbance and modeling errors in real environments. However, for systems that are sensitive to disturbances or those that are difficult to stabilize, it is easier to learn a powerful adversary than establish a stable control policy. An improper strong adversary can destabilize the system, introduce biases in the sampling process, make the learning process unstable, and even reduce the robustness of the policy. In this study, we consider the problem of ensuring system stability during training in the adversarial reinforcement learning architecture. The dissipative principle of robust H-in\uc0\u64257 nity control is extended to the Markov Decision Process, and robust stability constraints are obtained based on L2 gain performance in the reinforcement learning system. Thus, we propose a dissipation-inequation-constraint-based adversarial reinforcement learning architecture. This architecture ensures the stability of the system during training by imposing constraints on the normal and adversarial agents. Theoretically, this architecture can be applied to a large family of deep reinforcement learning algorithms. Results of experiments in MuJoCo and GymFc environments show that our architecture effectively improves the robustness of the controller against environmental changes and adapts to more powerful adversaries. Results of the flight experiments on a real quadcopter indicate that our method can directly deploy the policy trained in the simulation environment to the real environment, and our controller outperforms the PID controller based on hardware-in-the-loop. Both our theoretical and empirical results provide new and critical outlooks on the adversarial reinforcement learning architecture from a rigorous robust control perspective.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20481,10.1609/aaai.v36i5.20481,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Intelligent Robotics,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Average-Reward Markov Decision Processes,Yue Wang;Alvaro Velasquez;George Atia;Ashley Prater-Bennette;Shaofeng Zou,"In robust Markov decision processes( MDPs) , the uncertainty in the transition kernel is addressed by finding a policy that optimizes the worst-case performance over an uncertainty set of MDPs. While much of the literature has focused on discounted MDPs, robust average-reward MDPs remain largely unexplored. In this paper, we focus on robust average-reward MDPs, where the goal is to find a policy that optimizes the worst-case average reward over an uncertainty set. We first take an approach that approximates average-reward MDPs using discounted MDPs. We prove that the robust discounted value function converges to the robust average-reward as the discount factor goes to 1, and moreover when it is large, any optimal policy of the robust discounted MDP is also an optimal policy of the robust average-reward. We further design a robust dynamic programming approach, and theoretically characterize its convergence to the optimum. Then, we investigate robust average-reward MDPs directly without using discounted MDPs as an intermediate step. We derive the robust Bellman equation for robust average-reward MDPs, prove that the optimal policy can be derived from its solution, and further design a robust relative value iteration algorithm that provably finds its solution, or equivalently, the optimal robust policy.",2023,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/26775,10.1609/aaai.v37i12.26775,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Special Track on Safe and Robust AI,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Communicative Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning with Active Defense,Lebin Yu;Yunbo Qiu;Quanming Yao;Yuan Shen;Xudong Zhang;Jian Wang,"Communication in multi-agent reinforcement learning( MARL) has been proven to effectively promote cooperation among agents recently. Since communication in real-world scenarios is vulnerable to noises and adversarial attacks, it is crucial to develop robust communicative MARL technique. However, existing research in this domain has predominantly focused on passive defense strategies, where agents receive all messages equally, making it hard to balance performance and robustness. We propose an active defense strategy, where agents automatically reduce the impact of potentially harmful messages on the final decision. There are two challenges to implement this strategy, that are defining unreliable messages and adjusting the unreliable messages impact on the final decision properly. To address them, we design an Active Defense Multi-Agent Communication framework( ADMAC) , which estimates the reliability of received messages and adjusts their impact on the final decision accordingly with the help of a decomposable decision structure. The superiority of ADMAC over existing methods is validated by experiments in three communication-critical tasks under four types of attacks.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29708,10.1609/aaai.v38i16.29708,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Multiagent Systems,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Decision Making for Stochastic Network Design,Akshat Kumar;Arambam Singh;Pradeep Varakantham;Daniel Sheldon,"We address the problem of robust decision making for stochastic network design. Our work is motivated by spatial conservation planning where the goal is to take management decisions within a fixed budget to maximize the expected spread of a population of species over a network of land parcels. Most previous work for this problem assumes that accurate estimates of different network parameters( edge activation probabilities, habitat suitability scores) are available, which is an unrealistic assumption. To address this shortcoming, we assume that network parameters are only partially known, specified via interval bounds. We then develop a decision making approach that computes the solution with minimax regret. We provide new theoretical results regarding the structure of the minmax regret solution which help develop a computationally efficient approach. Empirically, we show that previous approaches that work on point estimates of network parameters result in high regret on several standard benchmarks, while our approach provides significantly more robust solutions.",2016,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/9908,10.1609/aaai.v30i1.9908,NA,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Special Track: Computational Sustainability,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Fairness Under Covariate Shift,Ashkan Rezaei;Anqi Liu;Omid Memarrast;Brian D. Ziebart,"Making predictions that are fair with regard to protected attributes( race, gender, age, etc. ) has become an important requirement for classification algorithms. Existing techniques derive a fair model from sampled labeled data relying on the assumption that training and testing data are identically and independently drawn( iid) from the same distribution. In practice, distribution shift can and does occur between training and testing datasets as the characteristics of individuals interacting with the machine learning system change. We investigate fairness under covariate shift, a relaxation of the iid assumption in which the inputs or covariates change while the conditional label distribution remains the same. We seek fair decisions under these assumptions on target data with unknown labels. We propose an approach that obtains the predictor that is robust to the worst-case testing performance while satisfying target fairness requirements and matching statistical properties of the source data. We demonstrate the benefits of our approach on benchmark prediction tasks.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17135,10.1609/aaai.v35i11.17135,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning IV,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Finite-State Controllers for Uncertain POMDPs,Murat Cubuktepe;Nils Jansen;Sebastian Junges;Ahmadreza Marandi;Marnix Suilen;Ufuk Topcu,"Uncertain partially observable Markov decision processes( uPOMDPs) allow the probabilistic transition and observation functions of standard POMDPs to belong to a so-called uncertainty set. Such uncertainty, referred to as epistemic uncertainty, captures uncountable sets of probability distributions caused by, for instance, a lack of data available. We develop an algorithm to compute finite-memory policies for uPOMDPs that robustly satisfy specifications against any admissible distribution. In general, computing such policies is theoretically and practically intractable. We provide an efficient solution to this problem in four steps. ( 1) We state the underlying problem as a nonconvex optimization problem with infinitely many constraints. ( 2) A dedicated dualization scheme yields a dual problem that is still nonconvex but has finitely many constraints. ( 3) We linearize this dual problem and( 4) solve the resulting finite linear program to obtain locally optimal solutions to the original problem. The resulting problem formulation is exponentially smaller than those resulting from existing methods. We demonstrate the applicability of our algorithm using large instances of an aircraft collision-avoidance scenario and a novel spacecraft motion planning case study.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/17401,10.1609/aaai.v35i13.17401,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Planning, Routing, and Scheduling",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Loss Functions for Training Decision Trees with Noisy Labels,Jonathan Wilton;Nan Ye,"We consider training decision trees using noisily labeled data, focusing on loss functions that can lead to robust learning algorithms. Our contributions are threefold. First, we offer novel theoretical insights on the robustness of many existing loss functions in the context of decision tree learning. We show that some of the losses belong to a class of what we call conservative losses, and the conservative losses lead to an early stopping behavior during training and noise-tolerant predictions during testing. Second, we introduce a framework for constructing robust loss functions, called distribution losses. These losses apply percentile-based penalties based on an assumed margin distribution, and they naturally allow adapting to different noise rates via a robustness parameter. In particular, we introduce a new loss called the negative exponential loss, which leads to an efficient greedy impurity-reduction learning algorithm. Lastly, our experiments on multiple datasets and noise settings validate our theoretical insight and the effectiveness of our adaptive negative exponential loss.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29516,10.1609/aaai.v38i14.29516,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning V,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Model Compression Using Deep Hypotheses,Omri Armstrong;Ran Gilad-Bachrach,"Machine Learning models should ideally be compact and robust. Compactness provides efficiency and comprehensibility whereas robustness provides stability. Both topics have been studied in recent years but in isolation. Here we present a robust model compression scheme which is independent of model types: it can compress ensembles, neural networks and other types of models into diverse types of small models. The main building block is the notion of depth derived from robust statistics. Originally, depth was introduced as a measure of the centrality of a point in a sample such that the median is the deepest point. This concept was extended to classification functions which makes it possible to define the depth of a hypothesis and the median hypothesis. Algorithms have been suggested to approximate the median but they have been limited to binary classification. In this study, we present a new algorithm, the Multiclass Empirical Median Optimization( MEMO) algorithm that finds a deep hypothesis in multi-class tasks, and prove its correctness. This led to our Compact Robust Estimated Median Belief Optimization( CREMBO) algorithm for robust model compression. We demonstrate the success of this algorithm empirically by compressing neural networks and random forests into small decision trees, which are interpretable models, and show that they are more accurate and robust than other comparable methods. In addition, our empirical study shows that our method outperforms Knowledge Distillation on DNN to DNN compression.",2021,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/16827,10.1609/aaai.v35i8.16827,8,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning I,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Optimal Classification Trees against Adversarial Examples,Dani\'ebl Vos;Sicco Verwer,"Decision trees are a popular choice of explainable model, but just like neural networks, they suffer from adversarial examples. Existing algorithms for fitting decision trees robust against adversarial examples are greedy heuristics and lack approximation guarantees. In this paper we propose ROCT, a collection of methods to train decision trees that are optimally robust against user-specified attack models. We show that the min-max optimization problem that arises in adversarial learning can be solved using a single minimization formulation for decision trees with 0-1 loss. We propose such formulations in Mixed-Integer Linear Programming and Maximum Satisfiability, which widely available solvers can optimize. We also present a method that determines the upper bound on adversarial accuracy for any model using bipartite matching. Our experimental results demonstrate that the existing heuristics achieve close to optimal scores while ROCT achieves state-of-the-art scores.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/20829,10.1609/aaai.v36i8.20829,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Tests in Online Decision-Making,Gi-Soo Kim;Jane P Kim;Hyun-Joon Yang,"Bandit algorithms are widely used in sequential decision problems to maximize the cumulative reward. One potential application is mobile health, where the goal is to promote the users health through personalized interventions based on user specific information acquired through wearable devices. Important considerations include the type of, and frequency with which data is collected( e. g. GPS, or continuous monitoring) , as such factors can severely impact app performance and users\'92 adherence. In order to balance the need to collect data that is useful with the constraint of impacting app performance, one needs to be able to assess the usefulness of variables. Bandit feedback data are sequentially correlated, so traditional testing procedures developed for independent data cannot apply. Recently, a statistical testing procedure was developed for the actor-critic bandit algorithm. An actor-critic algorithm maintains two separate models, one for the actor, the action selection policy, and the other for the critic, the reward model. The performance of the algorithm as well as the validity of the test are guaranteed only when the critic model is correctly specified. However, misspecification is frequent in practice due to incorrect functional form or missing covariates. In this work, we propose a modified actor-critic algorithm which is robust to critic misspecification and derive a novel testing procedure for the actor parameters in this case.",2022,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/21240,10.1609/aaai.v36i9.21240,9,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Reasoning under Uncertainty,AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Uncertainty Quantification Using Conformalised Monte Carlo Prediction,Daniel Bethell;Simos Gerasimou;Radu Calinescu,"Deploying deep learning models in safety-critical applications remains a very challenging task, mandating the provision of assurances for the dependable operation of these models. Uncertainty quantification( UQ) methods estimate the model\'92s confidence per prediction, informing decision-making by considering the effect of randomness and model misspecification. Despite the advances of state-of-the-art UQ methods, they are computationally expensive or produce conservative prediction sets/intervals. We introduce MC-CP, a novel hybrid UQ method that combines a new adaptive Monte Carlo( MC) dropout method with conformal prediction( CP). MC-CP adaptively modulates the traditional MC dropout at runtime to save memory and computation resources, enabling predictions to be consumed by CP, yielding robust prediction sets/intervals. Throughout comprehensive experiments, we show that MC-CP delivers significant improvements over comparable UQ methods, like MC dropout, RAPS and CQR, both in classification and regression benchmarks. MC-CP can be easily added to existing models, making its deployment simple. The MC-CP code and replication package is available at https://github. com/team-daniel/MC-CP.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/30084,10.1609/aaai.v38i19.30084,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,"AAAI Technical Track on Safe, Robust and Responsible AI Track",AAAI,NA\
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Robust Visual Imitation Learning with Inverse Dynamics Representations,Siyuan Li;Xun Wang;Rongchang Zuo;Kewu Sun;Lingfei Cui;Jishiyu Ding;Peng Liu;Zhe Ma,"Imitation learning( IL) has achieved considerable success in solving complex sequential decision-making problems. However, current IL methods mainly assume that the environment for learning policies is the same as the environment for collecting expert datasets. Therefore, these methods may fail to work when there are slight differences between the learning and expert environments, especially for challenging problems with high-dimensional image observations. However, in real-world scenarios, it is rare to have the chance to collect expert trajectories precisely in the target learning environment. To address this challenge, we propose a novel robust imitation learning approach, where we develop an inverse dynamics state representation learning objective to align the expert environment and the learning environment. With the abstract state representation, we design an effective reward function, which thoroughly measures the similarity between behavior data and expert data not only element-wise, but also from the trajectory level. We conduct extensive experiments to evaluate the proposed approach under various visual perturbations and in diverse visual control tasks. Our approach can achieve a near-expert performance in most environments, and significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art visual IL methods and robust IL methods.",2024,https://ojs.aaai.org/index.php/AAAI/article/view/29265,10.1609/aaai.v38i12.29265,10,top-tier,yes,artificial intelligence,0.9,"The AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence is a leading conference in AI. It is known for its rigorous peer review process and significant impact within the research community, helping to establish it as a top-tier venue.",aaai_venues.csv,Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence,AAAI Technical Track on Machine Learning III,AAAI,NA}